=== DOKUMENT START: EPRA_T.pdf ===

--- PDF SEITE 1 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Fourth edition  |  April 2024
EPRA 
Sustainability
Best Practices
Recommendations
Guidelines

--- PDF SEITE 2 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
1 F oreword  4
2 EP RA Sustainability Committee 5
3 E xecutive Summary  6 
3 .1  Introduction 6
3 .2  S cope of EPRA sBPR  7
3 .3  E PRA Sustainability Performance Measures  7
3 .4  O verarching Recommendations 9
3 .5  L inking Overarching Recommendations to Performance Measures 1 2
4 EP RA Sustainability Performance Measures - Environment  1 3 
4 .1  E lec-Abs Total electricity consumption  1 3
4 .2  E lec-LfL Like-for-like total electricity consumption  1 5
4 .3  D H&C-Abs Total district heating & cooling consumption  1 6
4 .4  D H&C-LfL Like-for-like total district heating & cooling consumption 1 8
4 .5  F uels-Abs Total fuel consumption 1 9
4 .6  F uels-LfL Like-for-like total fuel consumption 2 1
4 .7  E nergy-Int Building energy intensity  2 2
4 .8  G HG-Dir-Abs Total direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  25
4 .9  G HG-Indir-Abs Total indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2 7
4 .10  G HG-Int Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity  2 9
4 .11  W ater-Abs Total water consumption  3 2
4 .12  W ater-LfL Like-for-like total water consumption  3 4
4 .13  W ater-Int Building water intensity  3 5
4 .14  W aste-Abs Total weight of waste by disposal and diversion routes  3 7
4 .15  W aste-LfL Like-for-like total weight of waste  3 9
4.16 		 Cert-Tot	Type	and	number	of	sustainably	certified	assets		 4 0
5 EP RA Sustainability Performance Measures - Social  4 1 
5 .1  D iversity-Emp Employee gender diversity  4 1
5 .2  D iversity-Pay Gender pay ratio  4 3
5 .3  E mp-Training Training and development  4 4
5 .4  E mp-Dev Employee performance appraisals  4 6
5 .5  E mp-Turnover Employee turnover and retention  4 7
5 .6  H &S-Emp Employee health and safety  4 8
5 .7  H &S-Asset Asset health and safety assessments  5 0
5 .8  H &S-Comp Asset health and safety compliance  5 1
5.9 Co mty-Eng Community engagement, impact assessments 
a nd development programmes  52
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
2
Contents

--- PDF SEITE 3 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
6 EP RA Sustainability Performance Measures - Governance  5 4 
6 .1 G ov-Board Composition of the highest governance body 5 4
6 .2  G ov-Select Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 5 5
6.3	 Gov-COI	Process	for	managing	conflicts	of	interest	 5 6
7 O verarching Recommendations  5 7 
7 .1  O rganisational boundaries 57
7 .2  Coverage  58
7 .3  E stimation of landlord-obtained utility consumption 5 9
7 .4  T hird Party Assurance  6 0
7 .5  B oundaries – reporting on landlord and tenant utility consumption 6 1
7 .6  Normalisation 6 2
7 .7  S egmental analysis (by property type, geography, etc.)  6 3
7.8	 Disclosure	on	own	offices	 6 4
7 .9  N arrative on performance  6 4
7 .10  Lo cation of EPRA Sustainability Performance Measures in companies’ reports  6 5
7 .11  R eporting period 6 5
 7 .12  Materiality 6 6
8	 Definitions 	–	Glossary	of	Terms	 68
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
3 Fourth edition April 2024

--- PDF SEITE 4 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
We are pleased to announce the launch of the fourth 
edition of the EPRA Sustainability Best Practices 
Recommendations (sBPR) Guidelines. Since their 
i
nception in 2011, and in conjunction with the EPRA 
sBPR 
Awards, there has been a marked increase in 
their adoption by our listed members in their annual 
reports, particularly in Europe. 
This progress underscores the commitment of our 
me
mbers to enhance their sustainability reporting by 
incorporating more EPRA sBPR Performance Measures 
and Overarching Recommendations, and adhering 
mor
e strictly to the guidelines. These efforts are 
helping to make sustainability reports within the 
industry more comparable, harmonised and 
tr
ansparent. As a respected framework within the LRE 
industry, adopting EPRA sBPR Guidelines allows these 
entities to effectively communicate their sustainability 
achievements, strategies and initiatives in the 
e
nvironmental, social, and governance (ESG 
dimensions, demonstrating their steadfast dedication 
to 
sustainability.
This new edition of EPRA sBPR Guidelines emerged to 
support EPRA members in managing the reporting 
complexities as mandated by the “sector-agnostic” 
Eur
opean Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS), 
while making the guidelines more comprehensive.
T
hese standards have been formulated by the 
European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG) 
to develop the Corporate Sustainability Reporting 
Di
rective (CSRD), and were officially adopted by the 
European Commission (EC) on July 31, 2023. The 
“sector- agnostic” standards require certain companies 
including many EPRA members), independent of the 
sector in which they operate, to disclose selected non-
financial metrics from January 2024 onwards. We aim 
to 
facilitate a starting point for listed real estate (LRE) 
companies by supplying them with guidelines on how 
to 
report EPRA sBPR Performance Measures under the 
CSRD, while identifying relevant “sector-agnostic” 
ESRS for the LRE sector (ESRS Mapping to EPRA 
sBPR)
.
We a
lso include a Materiality Assessment Guide tailored 
for the LRE sector and a reporting template (Sample 
Data Table of EPRA sBPR Sustainability Performance 
Measures). In summary, the fourth edition of EPRA sBPR 
Guidelines achieves the following objectives: 
• Provides Bridge Requirements betw een EPRA KPIs
and the “sector-agnostic” ESRS,1 in particular to the
topical standards,2
• Identifies	relevant	sector-agnostic	ESRS	to	the	LRE
industry and guides on their reporting,
• Acquires further adherence to the Global Reporting
Initiative’s (GRI) Standards as a consequence of their
latest update and
• Provides further clarity, conciseness, and support to
LRE companies wishing to disclose their performance
i
n accordance with EPRA sBPR Guidelines.
To conclude, this latest release of the guidelines 
marks	a	significant	milestone	in	our	journey	towards	
sustainable
 development within the LRE industry. 
It not only addresses the evolving demands of 
sustainability reporting, but also serves as a 
testament
 to our collective endeavour to promote 
t
ransparency, accountability, and environmental 
stewardship. As we move forward, we encourage all 
ou
r members and the broader industry to follow these 
guidelines, leverage the new tools and resources 
provided, and continue to
 lead by example. Together, 
we can achieve remarkable strides in demonstrating 
our sector's commitment to a sustainable future, 
e
nhancing stakeholder trust, and contributing to a 
more sustainable and resilient world.
1
Filip Elland  
Chief Sustainability 
Officer,	Castellum	
Chairman, EPRA 
Sustainability Committee
April 2024 
Hassan Sabir 
Finance & ESG Director, 
EPRA
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
4
Foreword
Fourth edition April 2024
1 Existing EPRA KPIs since the 3rd edition of EPRA Guidelines (2017).
2 The “sector-agnostic” ESRS can be break into: "cross cutting standards" obligatory to all undertakings, and "topical standards" that 
are subject to materiality assessment.

--- PDF SEITE 5 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
2
MEMBER COMPANY
Olivier Elamine alstria	office
Laurent Lavergne AXA Investment Managers Real Assets
Mathew Webster British Land
Filip Elland (Chairman) Castellum
Hanna De Groote Cofinimmo
Jan Willem Van Kranenburg Cohen & Steers
David Miguelañez Colonial
Nicolas Jandont Gecina
Janine Cole Great Portland Estates 
Daphne Millet Icade 
Francesco Soldi IGD
Nicolas Scherf Janus Henderson Investors
Jorrit Arissen Kempen & Co
Clémentine Pacitti Klepierre
Fernanda Amemiya Landsec
Ryan Watson Macquire
Peter van den Tol MN 
Marta Esquivias Montepino Logistica Socimi SA
Oliver Keil Norges Bank Investment Management 
Caroline Tiveus Pandox
Andrea Palmer PGGM
Nikos Gkonis Prodea 
Agathe Bolli PSP 
Gabriella Zepf SEGRO
Clément Jeannin Unibail-	R odamco-Westfield
Jonathan Przybylski Vonovia
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
5
EPRA Sustainability Committee
Public disclosure of data is a fundamental component of a sustainable approach to real estate. EPRA aims to bring 
greater consistency and clarity to companies’ disclosure around their environmental performance. By releasing the 
updated fourth version of the EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations, we hope to enhance further 
stakeholders’ access to quality environmental, social, and corporate governance performance data that clearly 
states the positive direction of travel within the sector.
Filip Elland  
Chief	Sustainability	Officer,	Castellum 
Chairman, EPRA Sustainability Committee

--- PDF SEITE 6 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
3.1 Introduction
EPRA Sustainability Performance Measures and Overarching Recommendations have been developed by EPRA 
Sustainability Reporting Committee (‘the Committee’) Members. The sBPR were launched in 2011 driven by the 
market concerns, to provide the listed real estate sector with industry-specific advice on non-financial reporting. 
They were based on the GRI Standards and they have adapted over the years to capture the changes and 
challenges presented the reporting landscape. The fourth edition of the EPRA sBPR aligns with the most recent 
GRI Standards, which have been updated across various Topic Standards since 2016. This edition also 
incorporates guidance on several aspects of the CSRD related to the sector-agnostic ESRS, to facilitate 
compliance in annual reporting for EPRA members.
Figure	1	-	EPRA	sBPR	relation	to	sector-specific	ESRS
This document contains a number of CORE recommendations  for sustainability reporting, which must 
be reported by all EPRA members, alongside ADDITIONAL 	re commendations based on the Committee’s 
observations of good practice. These additional recommendations are especially relevant to companies with a 
long-standing track record of sustainability reporting. 
BRIDGE	REQU IREMENTS are a key addition to the fourth edition of the EPRA sBPR. These requirements serve 
as indicators to EPRA members, highlighting measures that are not mandated by the sBPR but are necessary 
according to the ESRS. The BRIDGE REQUIREMENT may encompass additional metrics or narrative elements 
drawn	from	the	sector-agnostic	ESRS,	specifically	relevant	to	the	listed	real	estate	sector	and	considered	material	
to EPRA. If a Performance Measure does not include a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT, it is because the sBPR already 
covers the ESRS requirements or goes beyond the scope of the ESRS mandates.
Please see our Sample Data Table of EPRA sBPR Sustainability Performance Measures  as additional guidance on 
how to publish Performance Measure data. 
3
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
Executive Summary
6
CSRD sector-agnostic 
ESRS:
Mandatory requirements 
on ESG reporting for 
certain companies in the 
EU and outside the EU, 
since 2024.
2024	Updates	–		Fourth	Edition EPRA sBPR covers approximately 
20% of sector-agnostic ESRS
EPRA sBPR 
 guidelines 2024 fourth edition:
Updated guidelines, 2024 with 
Bridge Requirements to sector-
agnostic ESRS
+ 
Materiality Assessment Guidelines 
+ 
Sector-agnostic ESRS mapping 
to EPRA sBPR Performance 
Measures
EPRA sBPR guidelines  
2017 third edition:
28 Sustainability 
Performance Measures 
and 10 Overarching 
Recommendations
+
Aligned with Global 
Reporting Initiative’s 
(GRI) Standards

--- PDF SEITE 7 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
3 Should companies choose to report separately on their development activities in their sustainability reports, EPRA recommends that 
they consult the relevant sections of the GRI Standards and Set 1 of the ESRS implementation guidelines from EFRAG IG.
4	 EPRA 	Sustainability	Performance	Measures,	Definitions,	Issues,	and	Rationale	are	based	on	the	GRI	Standards	and	Set	1 	of	the	ESRS;	
hence reference to the GRI Standards and the ESRS is used throughout the EPRA sBPR. The recent inclusion of the ESRS and ISSB 
has encouraged harmonisation between the sBPR and regulatory requirements. Companies wanting to consider the interoperability 
of ESRS and ISSB standards may consider accessing the following guidance by EFRAG and IFRS:  
www.ifrs.org/content/dam/ifrs/supporting-implementation/issb-standards/esrs-issb-standards-interoperability-guidance.pdf
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
7
3.2 Scope of EPRA sBPR
The scope of the EPRA sBPR covers companies’ investment activities and own occupation (e.g., environmental 
impacts from a company’s headquarters), and corporate-level policies and practices as shown in Figure 2.
Figure	2	–	Activities	within	the	scope	of	EPRA	sBPR
DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITIES
(CONSTRUCTION)
PROPERTY 	
INVESTMENT	
PORTFOLIO
(EXISTING BUILDINGS 
IN OPERATION)
COMPANY’S	OWN	
OFFICE	OCCUPATION
(E.G., HEAD OFFICE)
AND	CORPORATE	
POLICIES	AND	
PRACTICES
EPRA  
SUSTAINABILITY	
BPR
The EPRA sBPR do not currently cover real estate development activities (e.g., environmental impacts from 
construction sites).3
3.3 EPRA Sustainabil ity Performance Measures
The EPRA Sustainability Performance Measures should relate to the scope illustrated in Figure 2.4
The following table outlines the Performance Measures that should be reported by real estate property 
companies. Please refer to the following supplementary documents for further guidance on reporting:
• EPRA Materiality Assessment Guidance for Listed Real Estate can be used for advice on how to conduct 
materiality assessments, determining which data points are relevant to individual companies.
• EPRA ESRS Mapping to EPRA sBPR provides additional information on ESRS topical standards not captured 
throughout EPRA sBPR Performance Measures but are relevant to listed real estate.
• EPRA Emerging Topics in Listed Real Estate explores other ESG disclosure measures beyond the scope of 
the current EPRA sBPR Guidelines.
• EPRA Sample Data Table of EPRA sBPR Sustainability Performance Measures can be used as an example of 
how to report data points.

--- PDF SEITE 8 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
8
Table	1.	EPRA	Sustainability	Performance	Measures
EPRA Code Performance Measure GRI Standard ESRS 
Sector-
agnostic5
Unit(s) of measure
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Elec-Abs Total electricity consumption 302-1 E1-5 annual kWh
Elec-LfL Like-for-like total electricity consumption 302-1 annual kWh
DH&C-Abs Total district heating & cooling consumption 302-1 E1-5 annual kWh
DH&C-LfL Like-for-like total district heating & cooling 302-1 annual kWh
Fuels-Abs Total fuel consumption 302-1 E1-5 annual kWh
Fuels-LfL Like-for-like total fuel consumption 302-1 annual kWh
Energy-Int Building energy intensity 302-3 E1-5 kWh/appropriate denominator
GHG-Dir-Abs Total direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 305-1 E1-6 annual metric tonnes CO2e
GHG-Indir-Abs Total indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 305-2
305-3
E1-6 annual metric tonnes CO2e
GHG-Int Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity from 
building energy consumption
305-4 E1-6 tonnes CO2e/appropriate 
denominator
Water-Abs Total water consumption 303-3-a
303-5-a
E3-4 annual cubic metres (m3)
Water-LfL Like-for-like total water consumption 303-3-a
303-5-a
annual cubic metres (m3)
Water-Int Building water intensity E3-4 m3/appropriate denominator
Waste-Abs Total weight of waste by disposal route 306-4 
306-5
E5-5 annual metric tonnes and proportion 
by disposal/diversion routes
Waste-LfL Like-for-like total weight of waste by disposal 
route
306-4 
306-5
annual metric tonnes and proportion 
by disposal/diversion routes
Cer t-Tot
Type	and	number	of	sustainably	certified	assets E1-9 Total	number	by	certification/	rating/	
labelling scheme
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Diversity-Emp Employee gender diversity 405-1 GOV-1 
S1-9
Number and percentage of employees
Diversity-Pay Gender pay ratio 405-2 S1-16 Ratio
Emp-Training Employee training and development 404-1 S1-13 
G1-3
Average hours
Emp-Dev Employee performance appraisals 404-3 S1-13 Percentage of employees
Emp-Turnover New hires and turnover 401-1 S1-6 Total number and rate
H&S-Emp Employee health and safety 403-9 S1-14 Injury rate, absentee rate, and number 
of work related fatalities
H&S-Asset Asset health and safety assessments 416-1 Percentage of assets
H&S-Comp Asset health and safety compliance 416-2 Number of incidents
Comty-Eng Community engagement, impact assessments 413-1 S3-2 Percentage of assets and 
development programmes
GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Gov-Board Composition of the highest governance body 2-9 GOV-1 Total number
Gov-Selec Process for nominating and selecting the highest 
governance body
2-10 Narrative on process 
Gov-COI
Process	for	managing	conflicts	of	interest 2-15 Narrative on process
5 The “sector-agnostic” ESRS can be categorised by: cross-cutting standards (general requirements and disclosures) and topical 
standards. References in Table 1 only relate to the topical standards.

--- PDF SEITE 9 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
9
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines 
3.4 Overarching Recommendations
Section 7 of this document describes the ‘Overarching Recommendations’ – principles that should apply to 
the	reporting	of	EPRA	Sustainability	Performance	Measures.	The	following	section	briefly	describes	each	of	these 
principles. It is important that readers of this document familiarise themselves with Section 7 in detail before 
embarking on reporting on EPRA Sustainability Performance Measures since these principles underp in 
meaningful disclosure.
Organisational boundaries (see section 7.1)
Organisational	boundaries	for	asset-level	Performance	Measures	as	defined	by	the	GHG	Protocol	include	
Operational	Control,	Financial	Control	and	Equity-share.	Boundaries	definition	is	important	because	it	
determines, among other things, which assets a reporter will include or exclude from its reporting. Companies 
should state the company’s total investment in real estate and what percentage of their investment portfolio 
is represented within the chosen organisational boundary. Determini ng organisational boundaries should 
be	preceded	by	defining	one’s	ownership	structures	(specifically,	establishing	whether	assets	are	owned	by	
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures) in line with the GHG Protocol.6 EPRA is not advocating, at this stage, for	
any	specific	organisational	boundary	(the	Committee	is	aware	that	operational	control	is	the	most	common	
approach).
Coverage (see sectio
n 7.2)
Coverage shows the percentage or number of assets (within the organisational boundary) that are included in the 
data disclosed for each asset-level Performance Measure. Ideally, all assets within the organisational boundary 
should be included in each asset-level Performance Measure. Data coverage should be disclosed (as percentages 
or	values)	in	terms	of	number,	floor	area	or	financial	value	of	assets	within	the	organisational	boundary.
Estimation of landlord-obtained utility consumption (see section 7.3)
When landlord-obtained utility consumption data for some/all asset-level Performance Measures is partially 
unavailable or unreliable for an asset, missing data can be estimated. Estimation should be carried out as little as 
possible. When estimating landlord-obtained utility consumption, a company should:
• Only	estimate	utility	data	to	fill	gaps	for	missing	periods	using	known	consumption	from	a	recent	and
comparable	period	for	the	metered	supply	in	question;
• Disclose the proportion of total disclosed data that is estimated (as a percentage of the total disclosed for that
Performance	Measure);
• Disclose	the	method	of	estimation	used;
• Use the same method of estimation for all assets per Performance Measure.
6 P lease visit www.ghgprotocol.org/ for further information

--- PDF SEITE 10 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
10
Third	party	assurance (see section 7.4)
The credibility of sustainability data increases when third party assurance is carried out by an objective and 
independent assurance provider.
When undertaking third party assurance, consider the following:
• The	26	EPRA	sBPR	quantitative	Performance	Measures	should	be	verified	–	ideally	all	of	them	and	to	the	same
level	and	specified	the	level	of	assurance	(“limited”	or	“reasonable”).	Please	refer	to	Table	2	for	guidance	on	all
Performance	Measures	which	are	subject	to	third	party	assurance;
• The	level	of	verification	for	each	Performance	Measure	must	be	disclosed	and	should	ideally	be	to	the	same
level	as	for	financial	reporting;
• The	full	verification	statement	must	be	publicly	available,	and	a	link	should	be	provided	if	it	is	not	included	in	the
report;
• Each	Performance	Measure	that	had	been	assured	should	be	indicated	either	in	the	verification	statement
provided or made clear in the company’s data tables.
Boundaries	–	reporting 	on	landlord	and	tenant	consumption (see section 7.5)
There is no single, optimal way to report on base (landlord only) or whole building consumption for asset-level 
environmental Performance Measures. However, companies should report as follows:
• Absolute	and	like-for-like	Performance	Measures	should	include	only	landlord-obtained	energy/water;
• Where energy/water is obtained by the landlord but consumed in tenant areas and sub-metered, such
consumption should be reported separately (and should not be excluded from the totals).
For intensity indicators only, if known, tenant-obtained consumption can be used in calculations, for example, to 
achieve a situation where whole building consumption (tenant-obtained and landlord-obtained) is divided by the 
whole	building	floor	area.
Normalisation  (see section 7.6)
When calculating intensity indicators, companies should ensure the denominator used and the associated 
consumption	figures	are	as	closely	aligned	as	possible.	In	other	words,	they	should	strive	to	achieve	the	‘matching	
numerator and denominator’ scenario. Companies should clearly state how their intensity indicators are calculated 
and what numerators and denominators they have used and why. The most commonly used denominators are:
• Floor area
• Numbers of people
• Revenue
• Number of hours/days worked (for health and safety Performance Measures)
Segmental analysis (by property type, geography, etc.)  (see section 7.7)
For	asset-level	Performance	Measures,	this	should	be	in	line	with	companies’	financial	reporting	and	include,	
where meaningful, analysis by geography/country and/or property type.
Disclosure	on	own	offices (see section 7.8)
In addition to disclosing on its investment portfolio and corporate practices, a company should disclose the 
environmental impact of its own occupation separately within its sustainability reporting.
Narrative	on	p erformance  (see section 7.9)
Companies should provide, where appropriate, additional information and commentary/explanation of past 
performance, and outline plans for managing future performance.

--- PDF SEITE 11 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
11
Location	of	EPRA	Sustainability	Performance	Measures	in	companies’	reports	  (see section 7.10)
It is not necessary for companies to report the entirety of the EPRA Sustainability Performance Measures in their 
Annual Report and Accounts or Sustainability/Corporate Responsibility reports. However, companies must, as 
a minimum, include a cross-reference (e.g., a reference or hyperlink) to a comprehensive EPRA sBPR table (or 
location of the Performance Measures) that uses the Performance Measure codes (e.g., Elec-LfL) if these have 
been published elsewhere (on the company’s website).
Reporting period  (see section 7.11) 
The	reporting	period	for	the	undertaking’s	sustainability	statement	must	be	consistent	with	its	financial	
statements. While like-for-like Performance Measures must be reported for the two most recent years, companies 
can choose to report their performance against other Performance Measures over a much longer period. At the 
same	time,	companies	should	balance	the	benefits	of	disclosing	longer-term	trends	with	the	need	to	provide	
meaningful data. A company with multiple years’ worth of historical data, for example, may wish to report the 
oldest	year	(especially	if	it	is	a	baseline	year)	and	significant	milestone	years	along	with	the	most	recent	three	
years. 
Materiality (see section 7.12)
Conducting	a	materiality	review	with	any	specific	approach	(impact,	financial	or	double	materiality)	is	not	
mandated by the EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations (sBPR), but nevertheless recommends 
reporting companies give due consideration to materiality when compiling their response. 
There is an increasing expectation on companies to conduct a materiality review as a prerequisite for reporting 
against both voluntary and mandatory sustainability reporting standards. 
Material topics for a reporting organisation include those topics that have a direct or indirect impact on an 
organisation’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for itself, its 
stakeholders and society at large. 
The selection of topics by their materiality is a crucial element in guiding a strategic approach to sustainability for 
companies and creating relevant disclosures for stakeholders. By conducting a complete and robust materiality 
assessment, companies can identify key material matters across their value chain, thus demonstrating an 
understanding of where the company may experience material matters from the impact materiality perspective or 
the	financial	materiality	perspective	or	both.	
There is guidance on materiality assessments available to companies from several sources, notably for impact 
materiality from the GRI Universal Standards. However, the obligation to adopt a double materiality approach in 
response to CSRD requirements and applying ESRS presents a challenge to all sectors. To this end, EFRAG has 
created implementation guidance (in draft for public feedback at time of publication) for the ESRS materiality 
assessments. Nonetheless, companies will need to adopt an assessment methodology with an appropriate 
framework	that	is	suited	to	the	specific	context	of	their	industry.	As	the	EFRAG	guidance	is	currently	presented	as	
sector-agnostic, our supplementary guidance document, EPRA Materiality Assessment Guidance for Listed Real 
Estate,	will	build	on	the	work	by	EFRAG	and	other	related	guidance,	to	provide	further	sector-specific	context	for	
listed real estate and highlight how the EPRA sBPR might be considered or used in the materiality process. 
In light of that, companies should note that the use of sector insights and consensus presented in the EPRA sBPR 
can be used as a basis for listed real estate companies who are assessing sustainability matters and associated 
impacts. To properly form an opinion of sustainability matters, a company should still consider its own materiality 
assessment and corresponding risk management. It should also be noted that conducting a materiality review with 
any	specific	approach	(impact,	financial	or	double	materiality)	is	not	mandated	by	the	EPRA	sBPR,	but	nonetheless 	
recommends reporting companies give due consideration to materiality when compiling their response. 
If an organisation chooses not to respond to an sBPR Sustainability Performance Measure because it does not 
consider it to be material, ‘not material’ should be stated in the EPRA Sustainability Performance Measures tables. 
However, EPRA considers that an impact can only be legitimately accepted as non-material if shown to be so 
through a materiality review.

--- PDF SEITE 12 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
3.5	 Linking	Overarching	Recommendations	to	Performance	Measures
This table provides additional guidance on whether and how to apply the Overarching Recommendations to each 
Performance Measure.
Table	2.	Linking	Overarching	Recommendations	to	Performance	Measures
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
12
Code Performance Measure
Type
Organisational boundaries
Coverage
Estimation of landlord-obtained
utility consumption
Third	party	assurance
Boundaries	–	reporting	on	landlord
and tenant consumption
Normalisation
Segmental analysis (by property 
type, geography)
Disclosure	on	own	offices
Narrative	on	performance
Location	of	EPRA	Sustainability 	
Performance Measures
Reporting period
Materiality
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Elec-Abs Assets √ √ √ √ √ N/A √ √	 √ √ √ √
Elec-LfL Assets √ √ √ √ √ N/A √ √ √ √ √ √
DH&C-Abs Assets √ √ √ √ √ N/A √ √ √ √ √ √
DH&C-LfL Assets √ √ √ √ √ N/A √ √ √ √ √ √
Fuels-Abs Assets √ √ √ √ √ N/A √ √ √ √ √ √
Fuels-LfL Assets √ √ √ √ √ N/A √ √ √ √ √ √
Energy-Int Assets √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √
GHG-Dir-Abs Assets √ √ N/A √ √ N/A √ √ √ √ √ √
GHG-Indir-Abs Assets √ √ N/A √ √ N/A √ √ √ √ √ √
GHG-Int Assets √ √ N/A √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √
Water-Abs Assets √ √ √ √ √ N/A √ √ √ √ √ √
Water-LfL Assets √ √ √ √ √ N/A √ √ √ √ √ √
Water-Int Assets √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √
Waste-Abs Assets √ √ N/A √ √ N/A √ √ √ √ √ √
Waste-LfL Assets √ √ N/A √ √ N/A √ √ √ √ √ √
Cer t-Tot Assets √ √ N/A √ N/A N/A √ √ √ √ √ √
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Diversity-Emp Corporate N/A N/A N/A √ N/A N/A N/A N/A √ √ √ √
Diversity-Pay Corporate N/A N/A N/A √ N/A N/A N/A N/A √ √ √ √
Emp-Training Corporate N/A N/A N/A √ N/A N/A N/A N/A √ √ √ √
Emp-Dev Corporate N/A N/A N/A √ N/A N/A N/A N/A √ √ √ √
Emp-Turnover Corporate N/A N/A N/A √ N/A N/A N/A N/A √ √ √ √
H&S-Emp Corporate N/A N/A N/A √ N/A √ N/A N/A √ √ √ √
H&S-Asset Assets √ √ N/A √ N/A N/A √ N/A √ √ √ √
H&S-Comp Assets √ √ N/A √ N/A N/A √ N/A √ √ √ √
Comty-Eng Assets √ √ N/A √ N/A N/A √ N/A √ √ √ √
GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Gov-Board Corporate N/A N/A N/A √ N/A N/A N/A N/A √ √ √ √
Gov-Selec Corporate N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A √ √ √ √
Gov-COI Corporate N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A √ √ √ √

--- PDF SEITE 13 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
4
4.1 ELEC-ABS	TOTAL	ELECTRICITY	CONSUMPTION
 Asset-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
EPRA Sustainability Performance 
Measures - Environment
13
Definition 
Elec-Abs refers to the total amount of electricity consumed over a full reporting year. It includes electricity from 
renewable and non-renewable sources, whether imported or generated on site.
Issue 
Buildings	are	responsible	for	40%	of	the	final	energy	consumption	in	the	European	Union. 7 Energy consumption 
represents a major source of an organisation’s energy footprint, and it is important to ensure consistent reporting 
of	this	Performance	Measure	for	companies	to	improve	their	energy	efficiency.	Electricity	is	classified	as	indirect	
energy as any primary fuels used to generate it are combusted off-site. The EU’s recent ‘Fit for 55’ provisional 
agreement	reflects	the	drive	to	promote	renewable	energy	usage	in	the	built	environment,	notably	illustrated	
through requirements to install solar energy systems, if technically, economically, and functionally feasible, across 
new and existing building stock using incremental targets for differing building types. 8
Rationale 
Reporting total energy consumption (such as purchased electricity) from renewable and non-renewable sources 
should encourage a company to measure and manage its energy use in a way that drives down consumption 
and associated greenhouse gas emissions over time. Maximising renewable energy supply has been denoted as 
one	of	the	five	key	steps	towards	achieving	a	Net	Zero	Carbon	building,	prioritising	the	use	of	on-site	renewable	
energy generation.9 Off-site energy supplies may demonstrate the concept of additionality, a process in which an 
organisation’s power purchase agreement (PPA) has the direct effect of adding new renewable energy generation 
projects to the grid. Long-term commitments to purchase energy from a new renewable generation project can 
provide the capital required to aid construction and operation, 10 thus allowing an organisation to be directly 
supplied with renewable energy, whilst aiding wider grid decarbonisation. This Performance Measure enables the 
calculation of the electricity element of indirect greenhouse gas emissions, which fall under scope 2 and 3 (where 
sub-metered to tenants or tenant-obtained) of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol. 11 
7 https:/ /energy.ec.europa.eu/topics/energy-efficiency/energy-efficient-buildings/energy-performance-buildings-directive_en 
8 https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/infographics/fit-for-55-making-buildings-in-the-eu-greener/ 
9 https://ukgbc.org/resources/net-zero-carbon-buildings-framework/ 
10 https://ukgbc.org/news/corporate-ppas-an-alternative-route-to-additionality/ 
11 www.ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/ghgp/standards/ghg-protocol-revised.pdf
Annual kWh

--- PDF SEITE 14 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
14
 
 
CORE: Companies must report:
1. Total	electricity	consumption;
2. The proportion of electricity consumption from purchased and self-generated renewable sources
Elec-Abs should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 302-1): 
• Identify the amount of electricity purchased and consumed from external utility suppliers from non-renewable 
sources;	
• Identify the amount of electricity purchased and consumed from external utility suppliers from renewable 
sources;	
• Identify the amount of electricity consumption that has been self-generated by non-fuel sources , for example: 
 – Solar photovoltaic 
 – Wind turbines 
 – Hydro turbines 
 – Geothermal turbines 
• The self-generated electricity that is exported/sold (i.e., not consumed by the reporting company) must not be 
included. 
• From	this	figure,	calculate	the	proportion	of	electricity	consumption	from	renewable	sources	as	a	percentage	of	
total electricity consumption.  
 
BRIDGE	REQUIREMENT:	If applicable, companies should report on the total electricity consumed from nuclear 
sources (base on ESRS E1-5 37 b).
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 302-1: Energy consumption within the organisation and ESRS E1-5: 
Energy consumption and mix.
For detailed information on the relationship between this Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see 
ESRS E1-5 35, which aims to provide transparency on the share of renewable energy (E1-5 37 c i to ii) in total 
energy consumption, as well as dissegragated reporting of non-renewables (E1-5 37 a to b) and self-generated 
energy (E1-5 37 c iii). 
Companies should note application requirements (ESRS E1-5 AR 32 a) for reporting energy consumption 
required under paragraph 35, only applies to energy consumed from processes owned or controlled, as per the 
organisational	boundaries	defined	by	the	reporting	company .
RECOMMENDATIONS

--- PDF SEITE 15 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
15
Definition 
Elec-LfL refers to the electricity consumption of a portfolio that has been consistently in operation, and not under 
development,	during	the	most	recent	two	full	reporting	years	(this	like-for-like	definition	is	aligned	with	the	EPRA	
Financial	BPR	like-for-like	definition	for	rental	growth	reporting).12 For example, the 2023 like-for-like change 
compares the 2023 electricity consumption (Elec-Abs) with the 2022 electricity consumption (Elec-Abs) for a 
consistent portfolio.
Rationale 
Like-for-like Performance Measures are a necessary complement to absolute Performance Measures as disclosure 
on	a	like-for-like	basis	shows	a	change	in	performance	unrelated	to	fluctuations	in	portfolio	size	(through	
acquisitions, disposals, major refurbishments, and developments).  
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report like-for-like electricity consumption across the two most recent reporting years.
Elec-LfL should be calculated in the following way:
• Calculate the total electricity consumed for the like-for-like set of assets (i.e., those that have been consistently 
in operation, and not under development, during the most recent two full reporting years) using the same 
methodology	used	to	calculate	Elec-Abs.	These	calculations	should	be	reported	as	total	consumption	figures,	
not solely as a percentage change.
• Companies should disclose the basis and assumptions underlying the like-for-like information.
• High	variation	in	vacancy	rates:	While	companies	can	use	significant	changes	in	vacancy	rates	as	an	
explanation (akin to ‘special events’) of unusual consumption trends, such cases should be explicitly stated, and 
consumption should not be excluded from the totals due to variations in vacancy rates.
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 302-1: Energy consumption within the organisation. This section should 
be read in conjunction with the Elec-Abs section of this document.
Necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within the Elec-Abs BRIDGE REQUIREMENT.
4.2 ELEC-LFL	LIKE-FOR-LIKE	TOTAL	 
ELECTRICITY	CONSUMPTION
 Asset-level performance measure
Annual kWh
RECOMMENDATIONS
12   https:/ /www.epra.com/application/files/3115/7287/4349/EPRA_BPR_Guidelines_241019.pdf

--- PDF SEITE 16 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
DH&C-Abs refers to the total amount of indirect energy consumed from district heating or cooling systems over 
a full reporting year. In this instance, ‘indirect’ means energy generated off-site and typically bought from an 
external energy supplier.
Issue 
Although electricity and gas are often the primary forms of indirect and direct energy for many companies, certain 
regions and countries may use other forms of intermediate energy such as steam/hot water or chilled water 
provided from a district heating plant or chilled water plant. Since 2022, as a result of energy security concerns, 
district heating has gained policy support across Europe. 13 Increasing the distribution of district heat networks 
has	been	identified	as	one	method	to	limit	energy	security	concerns	across	Europe	due	to	the	decreased	reliance	
on imported gas.14 Alongside this, such networks could prove pivotal in aiding Europe’s efforts to decarbonise the 
built environment’s heating and cooling systems, crucial to achieving the EU’s 2030 and 2050 climate targets, as 
renewable	energy	accounted	for	less	than	a	quarter	of	the	EU’s	2020	final	energy	usage	for	heating	and	cooling. 15
Rationale 
DH&C-Abs (total energy consumption from district heating and cooling) should encourage companies to measure 
and manage energy use in a way that drives down consumption over time. Emphasis should be placed on installing 
systems and adapting existing networks to utilise renewable energy sources, including bioenergy, solar thermal, 
large-scale heat pumps, and geothermal. 16 Accurate measuring of energy consumption and energy sources 
associated with district heat networks will be critical in enabling the transition towards decarbonising heating and 
cooling within the built environment. This Performance Measure enables calculation of a district heating/cooling-
related element of indirect greenhouse gas emissions, which fall under scope 2 and 3 (where sub-metered to 
tenants or tenant-obtained) of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol. 17  
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report:
1. Indirect	energy	consumption	from	district	heating	and	cooling;
2. The proportion of energy consumption from district heating and cooling generated on-site and/or off-site from 
renewable sources.
DH&C-Abs should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 302-1):
• Identify the amount of district heating and cooling purchased and consumed from non-renewable sources 
generated on-site and/or off-site
4.3 DH&C-ABS	TOTAL	DISTRICT	HEATING	 
&	COOLING	CONSUMPTION
 Asset-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
16
Annual kWh
RECOMMENDATIONS
13 https://www.iea.org/energy-system/buildings/district-heating 
14 Ibid. 
15 https://www.eea.europa.eu/publications/decarbonisation-heating-and-cooling/decarbonising-heating-and-cooling 
16 https://www.iea.org/energy-system/buildings/district-heating 
17 https:/ /ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/ghgp/standards/ghg-protocol-revised.pdf

--- PDF SEITE 17 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
• Identify the amount of heating and cooling purchased and consumed from renewable sources generated on and 
off-site. Renewable energy sources can include:
 – Solar photovoltaic
 – Wind turbines
 – Hydro turbines
 – Geothermal turbines
 – Biomass
• Calculate the proportion of district heating and cooling consumed from renewable sources as a percentage of 
total energy consumption from district heating and cooling.
• If  DH&C-Abs is not procured at any of the properties in the portfolio, the sustainability performance measure 
should be reported as ‘Not applicable’.
 
 
BRIDGE	REQUIREMENT:	If applicable, companies should report on the total district heating and cooling 
consumed from nuclear sources (based on ESRS E1-5 37 b).
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 302-1: Energy consumption within the organisation and ESRS E1-5: 
Energy consumption and mix. 
For detailed information on the relationship between this Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see 
ESRS E1-5 35, which aims to provide transparency on the share of renewable energy (E1-5 37 c i to ii) in total 
energy consumption, as well as dissegragated reporting of non-renewables (E1-5 37 a to b) and self-generated 
energy (E1-5 37 c iii). 
Companies should note application requirements (ESRS E1-5 AR 32 a) for reporting energy consumption 
required under paragraph 35, only applies to energy consumed from processes owned or controlled, as per the 
organisational	boundaries	defined	by	the	reporting	company.	Similarly,	companies	should	also	pay	attention	to	
the application requirements (ESRS E1-5 AR 32 h) for accounting for steam, heat, or cooling received as "waste 
energy" from a third party's industrial processes under the category of "purchased or acquired" energy.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
17

--- PDF SEITE 18 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
18
Definition 
DH&C-LfL refers to the district heating and cooling consumed by a portfolio that has been consistently in 
operation,	and	not	under	development,	during	the	most	recent	two	full	reporting	years	(this	like-for-like	definition	
is	aligned	with	the	EPRA	Financial	BPR	like-for-like	definition	for	rental	growth	reporting). 18 For example, the 
2023 like-for-like change compares the 2023 district heating and cooling consumption (DH&C-Abs) with the 
2022 district heating and cooling consumption (DH&C-Abs) for a consistent portfolio.
Rationale 
Like-for-like Performance Measures are a necessary complement to absolute Performance Measures as disclosure 
on	a	like-for-like	basis	shows	a	change	in	performance	unrelated	to	fluctuations	in	portfolio	size	(through	
acquisitions, disposals, major refurbishments and developments).
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report like-for-like energy consumption from district heating and cooling across the two 
most recent reporting years.
DH&C-LfL	should be calculated in the following way:
• Calculate the total district heating and cooling consumed for the like-for-like set of assets (i.e., those that have 
been consistently in operation, and not under development, during the most recent two full reporting years) 
using the same methodology used to calculate DH&C-Abs. These calculations should be reported as total 
consumption	figures,	not	solely	as	a	percentage	change.
• Companies should disclose the basis and assumptions underlying the like-for-like information.
• High	variation	in	vacancy	rates:	While	companies	can	use	significant	changes	in	vacancy	rates	as	an	explanation	
(akin to ‘special events’) of unusual consumption trends, such cases should be explicitly stated and consumption 
should not be excluded from the totals due to variations in vacancy rates.
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 302-1: Energy consumption within the organisation. This section should 
be read in conjunction with the DH&C-Abs section of this document.
Necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within the DH&C-Abs BRIDGE REQUIREMENT.
4.4 DH&C-LFL	LIKE-FOR-LIKE	TOTAL	DISTRICT	 
HEATING	&	COOLING	CONSUMPTION
 Asset-level performance measure
18 https:/ /www.epra.com/application/files/3115/7287/4349/EPRA_BPR_Guidelines_241019.pdf
Annual kWh
RECOMMENDATIONS

--- PDF SEITE 19 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
19
Definition 
Fuels-Abs refers to the total amount of fuel used from direct (renewable and non-renewable) sources (‘direct’ 
meaning that the fuel is combusted on-site) over a full reporting year. 
Issue 
According	to	the	European	Commission,	buildings	are	responsible	for	40%	of	final	energy	consumption	in	the	
European Union and, alongside electricity, fuels (such as natural gas) are one of the most widespread types of 
energy consumed in buildings.19	Gas	is	classified	as	direct	energy	as	it	is	burned	on-site.	The	EU’s	recent	‘Fit	for	
55’ agreement illustrates efforts to hasten the transition away from natural gas and wider fuel consumption 
within the built environment, stating that by 2030 all new buildings must be zero emission, extending to the entire 
building stock by 2050. This comes in-line with data suggesting 66% of commercial building emissions are caused 
by predominantly fossil fuel heating systems. 20
Rationale 
Reporting	total	energy	consumption	from	fuels	(classified	as	direct	energy)	such	as	purchased	natural	gas	should	
encourage companies to identify and manage the use of fuels in a way that drives down fuel consumption over 
time. To reduce emissions associated with fossil fuel energy combustion, organisations may seek alternative 
renewable fuel sources. Biofuel, a gas or liquid fuel made from plant material, is becoming increasingly prevalent 
as a low-carbon alternative to petroleum-based fuels, used as a resource for energy generation on-site and on the 
grid.21 Biofuel use must, however, still be measured and reported, to provide an insight into overall fuel usage and 
to track the transition away from fossil fuel combustion. When combusting biofuels companies should separately 
report biogenic CO2 emissions from scopes, whilst reporting any CH 4 and NO2 emissions in scope 2.22 This 
Performance Measure enables the calculation of the fuel’s element of greenhouse gas emissions, which fall under 
scope 1 and 3 (where sub-metered to tenants or tenant-obtained) of the WRI/WBCSD GHG protocol.  
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report:
1. Total	amount	of	fuels	used	from	direct	sources;
2. The proportion of the total amount of fuel consumption within the organisation that is from renewable sources.
Fuels-Abs should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 302-1):
• Identify the amount of fuel purchased or obtained and consumed within the organisation from non-renewable 
sources;
• Identify the amount of fuels purchased or obtained and consumed within the organisation from renewable 
sources. Renewable energy sources can include:
 – Biomass 
 – Biogas
 – Biofuel
 – Renewable hydrogen
• Calculate the proportion of fuels purchased, obtained and consumed from renewable sources as a percentage 
of the amount of fuels purchased, obtained and consumed.
4.5 FUELS-ABS	TOTAL	FUEL	CONSUMPTION
 Asset-level performance measure
19 https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/infographics/fit-for-55-making-buildings-in-the-eu-greener/ 
20 https://ukgbc.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/UKGBC-Whole-Life-Carbon-Roadmap-A-Pathway-to-Net-Zero.pdf 
21 https:/ /ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/2023-03/Scope%202%20Guidance.pdf 
22 Ibid.
Annual kWh
RECOMMENDATIONS

--- PDF SEITE 20 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
• If electricity and thermals are self-generated by combusting fuels on site, only disclose the fuels consumed in 
Fuels-Abs. Do not include the resulting electricity/thermals in Elec-Abs/DH&C-Abs to avoid double-counting. 
If fuels are not purchased, obtained and consumed at any of the properties in the portfolio, the sustainability 
performance measure should be reported as ‘Not applicable’.
BRIDGE	REQUIREMENT:	According to Section L of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006 of the European 
Parliament	and	of	the	Council,	the	real	estate	industry	is	classified	as	a	'high	climate	impact	sector'	within	the	
ESRS.
As such, companies should further disaggregate total fuel consumption (based on ESRS E1-5 38 a to e) from fossil 
sources	by;
– Coal and coal products 
– Crude oil and petroleum products
– Natural gas 
– Other fossil sources
 
 Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 302-1: Energy consumption within the organisation and ESRS E1-5: 
Energy consumption and mix. 
For detailed information on the relationship between this Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see 
ESRS E1-5 35, which necessitates the disclosure of fuel consumption from both renewable (E1-5 37 c) and non-
renewable sources (E1-5 38 a to e).
Companies should note application requirements (ESRS E1-5 AR 32 a) for reporting energy consumption 
required under paragraph 35, only applies to energy consumed from processes owned or controlled, as per the 
organisational	boundaries	defined	by	the	reporting	company.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
20 Fourth edition April 2024

--- PDF SEITE 21 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
21
Definition 
Fuels-LfL refers to the fuel consumed by a portfolio that has been consistently in operation, and not under 
development,	during	the	most	recent	two	full	reporting	years	(this	like-for-like	definition	is	aligned	with	the	EPRA	
Financial	BPR	like-for-like	definition	for	rental	growth	reporting). 23 For example, the 2023 like-for-like change 
compares the 2023 Fuels-Abs consumption with the 2022 Fuels-Abs consumption for a consistent portfolio.
Rationale 
Like-for-like Performance Measures are a necessary complement to absolute Performance Measures as disclosure 
on	a	like-for-like	basis	shows	a	change	in	performance	unrelated	to	fluctuations	in	portfolio	size	(through	
acquisitions, disposals, major refurbishments and developments).  
 
 
 
CORE:  Organisations must report like-for-like fuel consumption across the two most recent reporting years.
Fuels-LfL should be calculated in the following way:
• Calculate the total fuels consumed for the like-for-like set of assets (i.e., those that have been consistently 
in operation, and not under development, during the most recent two full reporting years) using the same 
methodology	used	to	calculate	Fuels-Abs.	These	calculations	should	be	reported	as	total	consumption	figures,	
not solely as a percentage change.
• Companies should disclose the basis and assumptions underlying the like-for-like information.
• High	variation	in	vacancy	rates:	While	companies	can	use	significant	changes	in	vacancy	rates	as	an	
explanation (akin to ‘special events’) of unusual consumption trends, such cases should be explicitly stated, and 
consumption should not be excluded from the totals due to variations in vacancy rates.
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 302-1: Energy consumption within the organisation. This section should 
be read in conjunction with the Fuels-Abs section of this document.
Necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within the Fuel-Abs BRIDGE REQUIREMENT.
4.6 FUELS-LFL	LIKE-FOR-LIKE	TOTAL	 
FUEL	CONSUMPTION
 Asset-level performance measure
Annual kWh
RECOMMENDATIONS
23   https:/ /www.epra.com/application/files/3115/7287/4349/EPRA_BPR_Guidelines_241019.pdf

--- PDF SEITE 22 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Energy-Int refers to the total amount of direct and indirect energy used by renewable and non-renewable sources 
in a building over a full reporting year, normalised by an appropriate denominator.
Issue 
Intensity indicators are widely used to report performance. However, the variety of approaches used by companies 
to calculate intensity indicators represents a challenge for stakeholders when understanding how to interpret 
data provided by reporters. Please refer to section 7.5 and 7.6 of the Overarching Recommendations in this 
regard.	Legislation	regarding	energy	intensity	and	efficiency	in	the	built	environment	is	growing	across	Europe	
to	align	with	binding	2030	and	2050	climate	targets.	This	is	primarily	reflected	by	the	EU’s	Energy	Performance	
of	Buildings	Directive,	which	promotes	policies	aimed	at	achieving	a	highly	energy	efficient	and	decarbonised	
building stock by 2050,24	as	currently	85%	of	EU	buildings	were	built	before	2000,	75%	of	which	reflect	poor	
energy performance.
Rationale 
Building	energy	intensity	is	one	of	the	most	effective	measures	of	a	building’s	overall	energy	efficiency	during	
the occupation and operational phase of the building’s life cycle and enables analysis of performance over time 
without the need to exclude acquired or sold properties. This Performance Measure can be used for the energy 
intensity for both those buildings occupied by the reporter and those held in investment portfolios. Building 
energy intensity is primarily intended to track changes over time for the reporters’ assets. Tracking energy 
performance through energy intensity measures allows organisations to identify areas of energy improvement 
and investigate the impacts of renovation strategies at both individual asset and portfolio scales. Maximising 
energy	efficiency	reflects	a	crucial	pillar	of	the	net-zero	carbon	hierarchy,	ensuring	energy	efficiency	measures	
are prioritised to reduce a building’s overall energy demand and consumption. Organisations may, therefore, seek 
to	improve	insulation,	upgrade	lighting	systems,	optimise	HVAC	technology,	and	install	wider	energy-efficient	
appliances. In efforts to reduce operational energy usage, the UKGBC states in-use energy consumption should be 
calculated and publicly disclosed on an annual basis. 25 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the total amount of direct and indirect energy used (including renewable and non-
renewable sources) across their portfolio over a full reporting year, normalised by an appropriate denominator.
Energy-Int should be calculated (based on GRI Standard 302-3) as the sum of energy consumption reported for 
Elec-Abs, DH&C-Abs & Fuels-Abs, normalised using an appropriate denominator.
Energy intensity per revenue (kWh/revenue/year) is the preferred method according to ESRS E1-5 40, although 
any of the following calculation methods are recognised by EPRA as appropriate denominators:
Energy	intensity	per	person	(kWh/person/year)
• Identify the number and type of buildings, total annual energy consumption (in kWh) and corresponding number 
of	persons;
RECOMMENDATIONS
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
22
4.7 ENERGY-INT	BUILDING	ENERGY	INTENSITY
 Asset-level performance measure
kWh/person/year;	or
kWh/m2/year;	or
kWh/revenue/year
24 https:/ /energy.ec.europa.eu/topics/energy-efficiency/energy-efficient-buildings/energy-performance-buildings-directive_en 
25 https://ukgbc.org/resources/net-zero-carbon-buildings-framework/

--- PDF SEITE 23 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
• Calculate:
	 ∑	(sum	of)	annual	kWh	energy	consumption 26
	 ∑	(sum	of)	persons
• Companies should decide the most appropriate measure of persons used in this Performance Measure, clearly 
stating the Rationale and calculation methodology. For example, current best practice for the use of per person 
denominators is as follows:
Property type Suggested person denominator
Office Number of workstations
Retail Number of visitors per annum
Hotel Number of guest-nights
Residential Number of households 
 
Energy	intensity	per	floor	area	(kWh/m 2/year)
•	 Identify	the	number	and	type	of	buildings,	total	annual	energy	consumption	(in	kWh)	and	corresponding	floor	
area (m2);
• Calculate:
	 ∑	(sum	of)	annual	kWh	energy	consumption
	 ∑	(sum	of)	floor	area	(m 2)
•	 Companies	should	decide	the	most	appropriate	measure	of	floor	area	used	for	this	Performance	Measure,	
clearly stating the Rationale and calculation methodology.
It is fairly common for a landlord to supply tenant areas with Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) 
services but not for the rest of the energy used (i.e., tenants buy their own energy for lighting and small power 
supplies). In the absence of a standard approach, companies should include a note to state how they have treated 
buildings	where	this	scenario	applies,	and	what	floor	area	they	chose	to	apply	to	calculate	intensity	in	such	
buildings.	Outlined	below	are	suggested	types	of	floor	area	to	be	used	while	calculating	intensity	indicators.	These	
suggestions are based on current best practice:
Coverage	of	known	consumption	data Suggested	floor	area	denominator
Outlined	below	are	suggested	types	of	floor	area	to	
be used while calculating intensity indicators, based 
on the coverage of known consumption data.
If energy is only supplied to common areas Common parts area
If landlord-shared services, such as
HVAC, are supplied to tenant demises but tenant-
obtained energy is unknown
Companies	should	state	which	floor	area	has	been	used	
where this applies – be it common parts area only or 
common parts plus lettable area – acknowledging that 
the intensity indicator is affected due to the mismatch 
between numerator and denominator.
Where sub-metering allows for this, companies should 
consider itemising HVAC intensity separate to building 
energy intensity.
If energy is known for whole building (even including 
tenant-obtained energy if applicable)
Whole	building	floor	area	(for	example,	common	parts	plus	
net lettable area)
Energy	intensity	per	revenue	(kWh/revenue/year)
• Identify the number and type of buildings, total annual energy consumption (in kWh) and corresponding 
revenue	(in	EUR/GBP);
• Calculate:
	 ∑	(sum	of)	Annual	kWh	energy	consumption
	 ∑	(sum	of)	revenue	(EUR/GBP)
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
23
26 Total energy consumption should be expressed as primary energy. Use local conversion factors to convert electricity to joules or 
multiples	when	possible;	or	generic	conversion	factors,	when	local	conversion	factors	are	unavailable.

--- PDF SEITE 24 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
In accordance with EU law, intensity should be calculated with net revenue although is not required by EPRA. 
In	regard	to	all	three	types	of	normalisation	(i.e.,	per	person,	floor	area	and	revenue),	reporting	organisations	
should report the method used to ensure numerators and denominators in the intensity indicator correspond, 
thereby taking account of different landlord and tenant metering scenarios. In particular, where the reporter does 
not know energy consumption data within the whole building (i.e., it is missing or not known to the reporter), it is 
important to ensure the intensity indicator is consistent and accurate. Possible approaches include: excluding such 
properties	from	the	aggregation;	adjusting	the	overall	consumption	data	to	take	account	of	unknown	data	(i.e.,	
estimation);	or	adjusting	the	denominator	to	better	correspond	with	the	known	consumption.
For industrial properties and retail parks where the landlord only buys electricity for the purposes of external/
street lighting, companies should not use internal building area for the purposes of intensity Performance 
Measures. Rather, they should normalise the consumption by either number of car park spaces or m 2 area covering 
external areas (if available). 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 302-3: Energy intensity and ESRS E1-5: Energy intensity based on 
net revenue. This section should be read in conjunction with sections Elec-Abs, DH&C-Abs and Fuels-Abs of this 
document. 
Since the necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within this Performance Measure, 
there is no need for a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. For detailed information regarding the relationship between this 
Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see ESRS E1-5 40 to 43, which highlights the preferred method 
of calculating energy intensity and the sectors required to do so.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
24

--- PDF SEITE 25 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
GHG-Dir-Abs refers to the total amount of direct greenhouse gas emissions generated (i.e., GHG emissions which 
are generated on-site through combustion of the energy source/ fuel), or scope 1 emissions, over a full reporting 
year.
Issue 
According to the European Commission, energy consumption in buildings is responsible for 36% of European 
Union greenhouse gas emissions. 27 Companies should have some control of these emissions as they originate 
from combusting fuels. The impacts of climate change associated with greenhouse gas emissions are becoming 
increasingly	evident	across	Europe	(i.e.,	through	extreme	heat,	drought,	and	wildfires). 28 The requirement to 
measure, manage, and reduce such emissions is therefore growing in prevalence. The EU’s recent ‘Fit for 55’ 
provisional agreement illustrates the clear intention to eliminate scope 1 GHG emissions associated with the built 
environment,	directly	reflected	by	objectives	stating	all	new	buildings	constructed	should	be	zero-emission	by	
2030, extending to the entire building stock by 2050. 29
Rationale 
Reporting GHG-Dir-Abs emissions should encourage a property investment company to identify and manage 
emissions from sources owned or controlled by the reporting company. For example, direct emissions related to 
combustion would arise from burning fuel for energy within the company’s operational boundaries. In order to 
reach net zero targets, monitoring the reduction of GHG emissions and transitioning towards low and zero GHG 
alternatives is crucial. Organisations should seek to prioritise the installation and use of on-site renewable energy 
sources	to	transition	away	from	fossil	fuel	intensive	systems.	Maximising	energy	efficiency	has	also	been	identified	
as a further strategy to reduce direct GHG emissions in the built environment, through actively improving 
building	insulation,	upgrading	to	efficient	appliances,	and	employing	building	energy	management	systems. 30 
Organisations may also source low-carbon heating technology, including air and ground-source heat pumps, 
biomass boilers, and district heating systems, to aid the transition from fossil fuel intensive systems.  
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report their total amount of direct (scope 1) greenhouse gas emissions.
GHG-Dir-Abs should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 305-1): 
To calculate direct emissions, report tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tonnes CO 2e) emitted from fuels burned 
on site (please use the amount of fuels burned on site as reported under Fuels-Abs). Use recognised conversion 
factors, such as those published by recognised international bodies/initiatives such as the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) or International Energy Agency. 31, 32
• If fuels are not purchased, obtained and consumed at any of the properties in the portfolio, the sustainability 
Performance Measure should be reported as ‘Not applicable’.
 
RECOMMENDATIONS
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
25
4.8 GHG-DIR-ABS	TOTAL	DIRECT	GREENHOUSE	
GAS	(GHG)	EMISSIONS
 Asset-level performance measure
Annual metric  
tonnes CO2e
27 https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/infographics/fit-for-55-making-buildings-in-the-eu-greener/ 
28 https://news.un.org/en/story/2023/06/1137867 
29 https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/infographics/fit-for-55-making-buildings-in-the-eu-greener/ 
30 https://www.theccc.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/Fact-sheet-buildings-updated-July-2015.pdf 
31 www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/EFDB/main.php 
32 https://www.iea.org/data-and-statistics/data-product/emissions-factors-2023

--- PDF SEITE 26 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
26
ADDITIONAL: 	Companies may be aware that GRI Standard 305-1 requests that companies report fugitive 
emissions (such as refrigerant gases) and emissions from transportation of materials, products and waste. Please 
refer to section 7.5 of this document for further guidance on EPRA’s recommended approach to these additional 
emissions sources.
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions.
Since the necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within this Performance Measure, 
there is no need for a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. For detailed information on the relationship between this 
Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see ESRS E1-6: Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions. 
This section should be read in conjunction with the Fuels-Abs section of this document.
Fourth edition April 2024

--- PDF SEITE 27 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
27
Definition 
GHG-Indir-Abs refers to the total amount of indirect greenhouse gas emissions generated (‘indirect’ meaning that 
GHG emissions are generated off site during combustion of the energy source) over a full reporting year.
Issue 
Accurately calculating indirect greenhouse gas emissions using a robust methodology and appropriate 
conversion factors remains a key issue.33 The impacts of climate change associated with these emissions are 
increasingly	evident	across	Europe,	such	as	extreme	heat,	drought,	and	wildfires. 34 As a result, there is a growing 
requirement to effectively measure, manage, and reduce these emissions. The EU's recent 'Fit for 55' provisional 
agreement aims to boost the deployment of renewable projects in order to increase the share of renewables in 
the	EU's	final	energy	consumption	to	42.5%	by	2030. 35 Additionally, the UK government's Streamlined Energy 
and Carbon Reporting (SECR) requires companies to disclose certain emissions, indicating a legislative shift 
towards reducing and reporting on indirect greenhouse gas emissions.
Rationale 
Reporting indirect emissions should encourage companies to identify and manage the emissions that result 
from their activities, but are emitted at sites owned or controlled by another company. In the context of this 
Performance Measure, indirect emissions refer to greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of electricity, 
heat	or	steam	that	is	imported	and	consumed	by	the	reporting	organisation.	Indirect	emissions	are	sufficiently	
influenced	by	reporters	that	changes	in	their	practices	may	lead	to	significant	reductions.	Measuring	and	
reporting efforts to reduce indirect emissions can demonstrate leadership in combating climate change and can 
enhance the reporter’s reputation. 
Maximising	renewable	energy	supply	has	been	denoted	as	one	of	the	five	key	steps	towards	achieving	a	net	zero	
carbon building and reducing scope 2 emissions, prioritising the use of on-site renewable energy generation. 36 
In reducing scope 2 emissions, organisations may seek to rethink off-site energy supplies and place greater 
emphasis on the concept of additionality, a process in which an organisation’s power purchase agreement (PPA) 
has the direct effect of adding new renewable energy generation projects to the grid. Long-term commitments 
to purchase energy from a new renewable generation project can provide the capital required to aid construction 
and operation, 37 thus allowing an organisation to be directly supplied with renewable, low GHG emitting energy, 
whilst increasing the share of renewable energy in the wider grid. Efforts to reduce indirect emissions can also 
help identify emission hotspots, build partnerships with suppliers and customers, and improve supply chain 
efficiency,	leading	to	potential	operational	cost	savings	through	reduced	material,	resource,	and	energy	usage. 38
As a minimum requirement, companies must report their emissions according to the location-based method, 
which	reflects	the	average	GHG	emissions	intensity	of	grids	on	which	energy	consumption	occurs,	using	mostly	
grid-average emission factor data. 39 Companies may also report their emission according to the market-based 
method as an additional Performance Measure. 40 
4.9 GHG-INDIR-ABS	TOTAL	INDIRECT	
GREENHOUSE	GAS	(GHG)	EMISSIONS
 Asset-level performance measure
Annual metric  
tonnes CO2e
33 https:/ /ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/standards/ghg-protocol-revised.pdf 
34 https://news.un.org/en/story/2023/06/1137867 
35 https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/society/20180305STO99003/reducing-carbon-emissions-eu-targets-and-
policies 
36 https://ukgbc.org/resources/net-zero-carbon-buildings-framework/ 
37 https://ukgbc.org/news/corporate-ppas-an-alternative-route-to-additionality/ 
38 https://www.ukgbc.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/Scope-3-guide-for-commercial-real-estate.pdf
39	 According	to	the	GHG	Protocol,	location-based	method	reflects	the	average	emissions	intensity	of	grids	on	which	energy	consumption	
occurs (using mostly grid-average emission factor data). 
40	 According	to	the	GHG	Protocol,	market-based	method	reflects	emissions	from	electricity	that	companies	have	purposefully	chosen. 	
It derives emission factors from contractual instruments, which include any type of contract between two parties for the sale and 
purchase of energy bundled with attributes about the energy generation, or for unbundled attribute claims.

--- PDF SEITE 28 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
RECOMMENDATIONS
 CORE: Companies must report the total amount of location-based indirect greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes 
CO2e) emitted by off-site generation used for the operational energy consumption of the asset.
GHG-Indir-Abs  should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 305-2 and 
305-3). 
• Identify indirect location-based emissions of greenhouse gases resulting from the off-site generation of 
operational energy use at assets. The reported emissions must correspond with the amounts presented in 
Elec-abs,	Fuel-abs	and	DH&C,	aligning	with	the	organisational	boundaries	identified	by	the	company.
• Report tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tonnes CO 2e) emitted by the off site generation of electricity, heat 
or steam consumed, and fuels burned by tenants. Use recognised conversion factors such as those published 
by recognised international bodies/initiatives such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
or International Energy Agency.41, 42
• With regard to reporting of tenant and landlord emissions, the allocation of indirect GHG emissions between 
scope 2 and 3 is dependent on the metering and sub-metering arrangement in place between tenants and 
landlords.43 Reporters need to decide how to interpret Category 13 of the Technical Guidance for Calculating 
scope 3 Emissions of the GHG protocol.44 “Navigating through sustainability reporting standards”, available 
from https:/ /www.epra.com/application/files/9715/0366/5096/UK_EPRA_BPRs_Guidance-JLL.pdf  provides 
more guidance on this.
 
 
BRIDGE	REQUIREMENT: If applicable, companies may also report indirect market-based emissions of greenhouse 
gases resulting from the off-site generation of purchased electricity, heat, or steam (based on the amounts of 
purchased electricity, heat and steam as reported in Elec-Abs and DH&C-Abs). 45	Market-based	emissions	reflect	
emissions from electricity that an organisation has purposefully chosen. It derives emission factors from the 
contractual agreement between the external energy supplier and the reporting organisation for the purchase of 
energy with certain attributes such as renewable sources (based on ESRS E1-6 49 b).
 
It is also encouraged for companies to report their scope 3 emissions in metric tonnes of CO 2e (based on ESRS 
E1-6 44 c). EPRA recognises that companies may report other indirect scope 3 emissions, in addition to those 
associated with the operational energy use of buildings. For transparency within the sBPR disclosures, companies 
should separately identify such emissions and should categorise these according to the organisational boundaries 
and aligned with the GHG Protocol.
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions and 305-3: Other 
indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions. For further guidance on how this Performance Measure relates to EU regulation 
please see ESRS E1-6: Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions and  ESRS 1-6 AR 46 for additional support on 
how to calculate scope 3 emissions. Where companies wish to report scope 3 or other out of scope GHG emissions, 
they may refer to GRI 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions.
This section should be read in conjunction with the Elec-Abs, DH&C-Abs and Fuels-Abs sections of this document. 
Please also refer to section 7.5 and 7.6 of the Overarching Recommendations and “Navigating through 
sustainability reporting standards.”
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
28
41 www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/EFDB/main.php
42 EPRA recommend companies use the most recently available grid-based emissions factors such as those provided by the 
International Energy Agency, see www.iea.org/data-and-statistics/data-product/emissions-factors-2023 
43 Calculated according to the location-based method. 
44 www.ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/ghgp/standards/Scope3_Calculation_Guidance_0.pdf
45 Calculated according to the market-based method.

--- PDF SEITE 29 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
29
Definition 
GHG-Int refers to the total amount of direct and indirect GHG emissions generated from energy consumption in a 
building over a full reporting year, normalised by an appropriate denominator.
Issue 
Intensity indicators have become widespread measures of performance (alongside the absolute consumption and 
like-for-like indicators). However, the variety of approaches used by companies to calculate intensity indicators 
represents a challenge for stakeholders when understanding how to interpret these indicators. Please refer to 
section 7.5 and 7.6 of the Overarching Recommendations in this regard. Legislation regarding energy intensity and 
efficiency,	and	reducing	overall	emissions	in	the	built	environment	is	growing	across	Europe	to	align	with	binding	
2030	and	2050	climate	targets.	This	is	primarily	reflected	by	the	EU’s	Energy	Performance	of	Buildings	Directive	
which	promotes	policies	to	achieve	a	highly	energy	efficient	and	decarbonised	building	stock	by	2050. 46
Rationale 
GHG-Int	is	an	effective	measure	of	efficiency	during	the	occupation	and	operational	phase	of	the	building	life	
cycle and allows analysis of performance over time without the need to exclude acquired or sold properties. This 
Performance Measure provides reporters with the opportunity to disclose GHG intensity for both those buildings 
occupied by the reporter and investment properties. GHG intensity from building energy is primarily intended to 
track changes over time for the reporters’ assets. 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the total amount of direct and indirect (location-based) GHG emissions generated 
from energy consumption over a full reporting year, normalised by an appropriate denominator.
GHG-Int should be calculated (based on GRI Standard 305-4) as the sum of GHG emissions calculated for the 
EPRA Sustainability Performance Measures GHG-Dir-Abs and GHG-Indir-Abs, normalised using an appropriate 
denominator.
GHG intensity per revenue (kgCO2e/revenue/year) is the preferred method according to ESRS E1-6, although any 
of the following calculation methods are recognised by EPRA as appropriate denominators:
GHG	intensity	per	person	(kgCO 2e/person/year)
• Identify the number and type of buildings, total annual kgCO 2e emissions and corresponding total number of 
persons.
• Calculate:
∑	(sum	of)	annual	kgCO2e emissions
∑	(sum	of)	persons 
4.10 GHG-INT	GREENHOUSE	GAS	(GHG)	EMISSIONS
	 INTENSITY	FROM	BUILDING	ENERGY 	
CONSUMPTION
 Asset-level performance measure
kgCO2e/m2/year 
kgCO2e/person/year 
kgCO2e/revenue/year
RECOMMENDATIONS
46 https:/ /energy.ec.europa.eu/topics/energy-efficiency/energy-efficient-buildings/energy-performance-buildings-directive_en

--- PDF SEITE 30 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
30
• Companies should decide the most appropriate measure of persons used in this Sustainability Performance 
Measure, clearly stating the Rationale and calculation methodology. For example, current best practice for the 
use of per person denominators is as follows:
Property type Suggested person denominator
Office Number of workstations
Retail Number of visitors per annum
Hotel Number of guest-nights
Residential Number of households  
GHG	intensity	per	floor	area	(kgCO 2e/m2/year)
• Identify the number and type of buildings, total annual kgCO 2e	emissions	and	corresponding	total	floor	area	
(m2).
• Calculate:
	 ∑	(sum	of)	annual	kgCO 2e emissions
	 ∑	(sum	of)	floor	area	(m 2)
• Companies	should	decide	the	most	appropriate	measure	of	floor	area	used	in	this	Sustainability	Performance	
Measure, clearly stating the Rationale and calculation methodology.
It is fairly common for a landlord to supply tenant areas with Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) services 
but not the rest of energy (i.e., tenants buy their own energy for lighting and small power supplies). In the absence of 
a standard approach, companies should include a note to state how they have treated buildings where this scenario 
applies,	and	what	floor	area	they	chose	to	apply	to	calculate	intensity	in	such	buildings.
Coverage	of	known	consumption	data Suggested	floor	area	denominator
Outlined	below	are	suggested	types	of	floor	area	to	
be used while calculating intensity indicators, based 
on the coverage of known consumption data.
Emissions cover energy only supplied to  
common areas
Common parts area
If landlord-shared services, such as HVAC, are 
supplied to tenant demises but emissions arising from 
tenant-obtained energy are unknown
Companies	should	state	which	floor	area	has	been	used	
where this applies – be it common parts area only or 
common parts plus lettable area – acknowledging that 
the intensity indicator is affected due to the mismatch 
between numerator and denominator.
Where sub-metering allows for this, companies should 
consider itemising HVAC intensity separate to building 
GHG intensity.
If data is available on emissions arising from
energy for whole building (even including
tenant-obtained energy if applicable)
Whole	building	floor	area	(for	example,	common
parts plus net lettable area).
GHG	intensity	per	revenue	(kgCO 2e/revenue/year)
• Identify the number and type of buildings, total annual kgCO 2e emissions and corresponding revenue (in EUR/
GBP).
• Calculate:
	 ∑	(sum	of)	annual	kgCO 2e emissions
	 ∑	(sum	of)	revenue	(EUR/GBP)

--- PDF SEITE 31 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
31
In accordance with ESRS E1-5, activities in 'high climate impact sectors' should calculate energy intensity using total 
energy consumption per net revenue, even though this is not required by the EPRA sBPR. In regard to all three types 
of	normalisation	(i.e.,	per	person,	floor	area	and	revenue),	reporting	organisations	should	report	the	method	used	
to ensure numerators and denominators in the intensity indicator correspond, thereby taking account of different 
landlord and tenant metering scenarios. In particular, where the reporter does not know GHG emission data within 
the whole building (i.e., it is missing or not known to the reporter), it is important to ensure the intensity indicator is 
consistent	and	accurate.	Possible	approaches	include:	excluding	such	properties	from	the	aggregation;	adjusting	the	
overall	consumption	data	to	take	account	of	unknown	data	(i.e.,	estimation);	or	adjusting	the	denominator	to	better	
correspond with the known consumption.
For industrial properties and retail parks where the landlord only buys electricity for the purposes of external/
street lighting, companies should not use internal building area for the purposes of GHG emissions intensity 
Performance Measures. Rather, they should normalise the consumption by either number of car park spaces or m 2 
area covering external areas (if available).
 
BRIDGE	REQUIREMENT: For companies reporting indirect market-based emissions, it is encouraged to also 
calculate emissions intensity using these factors (based on ESRS E1 AR 47). For companies reporting GHG 
intensity	per	revenue,	figures	should	be	reported	in	metric	tonnes	of	CO₂e	(based	on	ESRS	E1-6	54).
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the guidance for GRI 305-4: GHG emissions intensity. This section should be read in conjunction 
with the GHG-Dir-Abs and GHG-Indir-Abs sections of this document. 
For detailed information regarding the relationship between this Performance Measure and EU regulation, please 
see ESRS E1 AR 47 a, which provides a calculation method using market-based emissions, and ESRS E1-6 AR 53 
and E1-6 53 to 55, which highlights the preferred method of calculating GHG emissions intensity and the sectors 
required to do so.
Fourth edition April 2024

--- PDF SEITE 32 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
32
Definition 
Water-Abs refers to the total amount of water consumed within a portfolio over a full reporting year.
Issue 
The built environment is responsible for 33% of water consumption, according to the World Green Building 
Council.47 However, water reporting by the real estate sector is often limited in scope, accuracy, and detail. The 
impacts	of	climate	change	are	greatly	affecting	the	availability	of	finite	water	resources	across	Europe.	The	
European Environment Agency denotes approximately 20% of European territory and 30% of Europeans are 
affected by water stress during an average year, with climate change set to exacerbate the issue by heightening 
the frequency, magnitude, and impact of drought events in the region. 48	Although	no	specific	legislation	has	been	
set regarding a mandated reduction in water consumption, climate change represents a need to monitor and 
reduce water consumption within the built environment. 
Rationale 
Reporting Water-Abs (total volume of water withdrawn by source) contributes to an understanding of the overall 
scale of potential impacts and risks associated with an investment company’s water use. The total volume 
withdrawn provides an indication of the company’s relative size and importance as a user of water and provides 
a	baseline	figure	for	other	calculations	relating	to	efficiency	and	use.	To	accurately	track	water	consumption,	
organisations	may	employ	sub-metering	monitoring	systems,	aiding	identification	of	performance	inefficiencies,	
allowing the creation of informed decisions regarding conservation measures. 49 Maximising water reuse and 
recycling	has	also	been	identified	as	crucial	action	in	reducing	water	consumption	in	the	built	environment. 50 
Organisations may consider installing rainwater harvesting systems, grey and blackwater recycling technology, or 
low	flow	operational	fittings,	among	wider	technologies,	to	improve	water	re-use	and	recycling	efforts	and	overall	
efficiency.	
The	systematic	effort	to	monitor	and	improve	the	efficient	use	of	water	in	the	reporting	organisation	is	directly	
linked to water consumption costs. Total water use can also indicate the level of risk posed by disruptions to water 
supplies or increases in the cost of water. In regions where water sources are highly restricted, the company’s 
water	consumption	patterns	can	also	influence	relations	with	other	stakeholders.  
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the total amount of water consumed within a portfolio over a full reporting year.
Water-Abs should be calculated as follows (based on GRI Standard 303-3 and 303-5): 
• Identify the total volume of water withdrawn from any water source (linked to metered or measured utility 
data), either withdrawn directly by the company or purchased through intermediaries such as water utilities. 
This includes the abstraction of cooling water. It should cover all water purchased/sourced, and reporters 
may itemise water reallocated (preferably metered) to other parties who are the end users. To avoid double 
counting, secondary water usage (for example water withdrawn from a primary source and reused on site for a 
secondary use) should not be included in your calculations. 
4.11 WATER-ABS	TOTAL	WATER	CONSUMPTION
 Asset-level performance measure
Annual cubic  
metres (m3)
47 https://worldgbc.org/what-is-a-sustainable-built-environment/#:~:text=Worldwide%2C%20buildings%20are%20responsible%20 
for,and%2035%25%20of%20generated%20waste
48 https://www.eea.europa.eu/highlights/water-stress-is-a-major 
49 https:/ /worldgbc.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/C23.9497-WGBC-Water-Guide-2023_AW_V8_Spreads.pdf 
50 Ibid.
RECOMMENDATIONS

--- PDF SEITE 33 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
33
• Report the total volume of water withdrawn in cubic metres per year (m 3/year) from the following sources: 
 - Surface water, sourced from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans
 - Ground water 
 - Rainwater collected directly and stored by the reporting organisation 
 - Waste water from another organisation 
 - Municipal water supplies or other public or private utilities
 
ADDITIONAL: 	In addition to reporting total water consumption, companies may also choose to report total 
consumption by the following sources provided they have accurate data and/or water collection installations on 
site. For this additional indicator, companies can include the use of secondary water (such as waste water treated 
and reused on site): 
• Surface water sourced from wetlands, rivers, lakes and oceans 
• Ground water 
• Rainwater collected directly and stored by the reporting organisation 
• Waste water from another organisation 
• Greywater 
• Blackwater 
• Treated waste water 
• Desalination plant 
• Other water sources
 
BRIDGE	REQUIREMENT:	Total water consumption used within areas at material water risk should be reported in 
addition to the absolute value when available (based on ESRS E3-4 28 b).
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standards 303-3: Water withdrawal and 303-5: Water consumption.  
For detailed information on the relationship between this Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see 
ESRS E3-4 28, which necessitates the disclosure of water consumption within own operations and water recycled, 
reused, and stored.

--- PDF SEITE 34 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Water-LfL refers to the water consumption of a portfolio that has been consistently in operation, and not under 
development,	during	the	most	recent	two	full	reporting	years	(this	like-for-like	definition	is	aligned	with	the	EPRA	
Financial	BPR	like-for-like	definition	for	rental	growth	reporting).51
Rationale 
Like-for-like Performance Measures are a necessary complement to absolute Performance Measures as disclosure 
on	a	like-for-like	basis	shows	a	change	in	performance	is	not	affected	by	fluctuations	in	the	size	of	portfolios	
(through acquisitions, disposals, major refurbishments and developments).  
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report like-for-like water consumption across the two most recent reporting years.
Water-LfL should be calculated in the following way:
• Calculate the total water consumed for the like-for-like set of assets (i.e., those that have been consistently 
in operation, and not under development, during the most recent two full reporting years) using the same 
methodology	used	to	calculate	Water-Abs.	These	calculations	should	be	reported	as	total	consumption	figures,	
not solely as a percentage change. 
• Companies should disclose the basis and assumptions underlying the like-for-like information. 
•	 High	variation	in	vacancy	rates:	While	companies	can	use	significant	changes	in	vacancy	rates	as	an	explanation	
(akin to ‘special events’) of unusual consumption trends, such cases should be explicitly stated and consumption 
should not be excluded from the totals due to variations in vacancy rates.
 
ADDITIONAL:  Companies may also report the total water consumed by source for the like-for-like set of assets 
using the same methodology and sources used to calculate water consumption by source under Water-Abs. These 
calculations	should	be	reported	as	total	consumption	figures,	not	solely	as	a	percentage	change.  
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 303-3: Water withdrawal. This section should be read in conjunction with 
the Water-Abs section of this document.
4.12 WATER-LFL	LIKE-FOR-LIKE	TOTAL	 
WATER	CONSUMPTION
 Asset-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
34
Annual cubic  
metres (m3)
RECOMMENDATIONS
51 https:/ /www.epra.com/application/files/3115/7287/4349/EPRA_BPR_Guidelines_241019.pdf

--- PDF SEITE 35 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Water-Int refers to the total amount of water consumption within a building over a full reporting year, normalised 
by an appropriate denominator.
Issue 
Intensity indicators have become widespread measures of performance (alongside the absolute consumption and 
like-for-like indicators). However, the variety of approaches used by companies to calculate intensity indicators 
represents a challenge for stakeholders when understanding how to interpret these indicators. Please refer to 
section 7.5 and 7.6 of the Overarching Recommendations in this regard. The impacts of climate change are greatly 
affecting	the	availability	of	finite	water	resources	across	Europe.	The	European	Environment	Agency	denotes	
approximately 20% of European territory and 30% of Europeans are affected by water stress during an average 
year, with climate change set to exacerbate the issue by heightening the frequency, magnitude, and impact of 
drought events in the region.52	Although	no	specific	legislation	has	been	set	regarding	a	mandated	reduction	in	
water consumption, climate change represents a need to monitor and reduce water use intensity within the built 
environment.
Rationale 
Water-Int	is	one	of	the	most	effective	measures	of	a	building’s	overall	water	efficiency	during	the	occupation	
and operational phase of the building life cycle and allows analysis of performance over time without the need 
to exclude acquired or sold properties. This Performance Measure provides reporters with the opportunity 
to disclose water intensity for both those buildings occupied by the reporter and those held in investment 
portfolios. Water intensity is primarily intended to track changes over time for the reporters’ assets. Maximising 
water	reuse	and	recycling	has	also	been	identified	as	crucial	action	in	enhancing	water	use	efficiency	in	the	built	
environment.53 Organisations may consider installing rainwater harvesting systems, grey and blackwater recycling 
technology,	or	low	flow	operational	fittings,	among	wider	technologies,	to	improve	water	reuse	and	recycling	
efforts and reduce overall water use intensity.  
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the total amount of water consumption over a full reporting year, normalised by an 
appropriate denominator.
Water-Int should be calculated as the sum of water consumption recorded under Water-Abs (total water 
withdrawal by source), normalised using an appropriate denominator. 
Water intensity per revenue ((litres or m3)/revenue/year) is the preferred method according to ESRS E3-4, 
although any of the following calculation methods are recognised by EPRA as appropriate denominators:
Water	intensity	per	person	((litres	or	m 3)/appropriate	person	denominator)	
Water use in some cases can be driven by building users or visitors. For this reason, intensity analysis may be 
based on the numbers of occupiers/users of a property. 
• Identify the number and type of buildings, total annual litres or m 3 water consumption and corresponding 
denominator.
4.13 WATER-INT	BUILDING	WATER	INTENSITY
 Asset-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
35
(litres or m3)/person/day;	or
m3/ m2/	year;	or
(litres or m3)/revenue/year
RECOMMENDATIONS
52 https://www.eea.europa.eu/highlights/water-stress-is-a-major 
53 https:/ /worldgbc.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/C23.9497-WGBC-Water-Guide-2023_AW_V8_Spreads.pdf

--- PDF SEITE 36 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
• Calculate:
	 ∑	(sum	of)	annual	litres	or	m 3 water consumption
	 ∑	(sum	of)	appropriate	person	denominator
• Companies should decide the most appropriate measure of persons used in this performance measure, clearly 
stating the rationale and calculation methodology. For example, current best practice for the use of per person 
denominators is as follows:
Property type Suggested person denominator
Office Number of workstations
Retail Number of visitors per annum
Hotel Number of guest-nights
Residential Number of households
Water	intensity	per	floor	area	(m³/m²/year)
• Identify the number and type of buildings, total annual m3	water	consumption	and	corresponding	floor	area	(in	m2).
• Calculate:
	 ∑	(sum	of)	annual	m 3 water consumption
	 ∑	(sum	of)	floor	area	(m 2)
•	 Companies	should	decide	the	most	appropriate	measure	of	floor	area	used,	clearly	stating	the	rationale	and	
calculation	methodology.	Current	good	practice	for	the	use	of	floor	area	denominators	is	as	follows:
Coverage	of	known	consumption	data Suggested	floor	area	denominator
Outlined	below	are	suggested	types	of	floor	area	to	be	
used while calculating intensity indicators, based on the 
coverage of known consumption data.
If water is only supplied to common areas Common parts area
If water consumption is known for the whole building 
(even including tenant-obtained water if applicable)
Whole	building	floor	area	(for	example,	common	parts	
plus net lettable area).
Water	intensity	per	revenue	((litres	or	m 3)/revenue/year)
• Identify the number and type of buildings, total annual litres or m 3 water consumption and corresponding 
revenue (in EUR/GBP).
• Calculate:
	 ∑	(sum	of)	annual	litres	or	m 3 water consumption
	 ∑	(sum	of)	revenue	(EUR/GBP)
In accordance with EU law, intensity should be calculated with net revenue although this is not required by EPRA.
In	regard	to	all	three	types	of	normalisation	(i.e.,	per	person,	floor	area	and	revenue),	reporting	organisations	
should report the method used to ensure numerators and denominators in the intensity indicator correspond, 
thereby taking account of different landlord and tenant metering scenarios. In particular, where the reporter does 
not know the water consumption data within the whole building (i.e., it is missing or not known to the reporter), it is 
important to ensure the intensity indicator is consistent and accurate. Possible approaches include: excluding such 
properties	from	the	aggregation;	adjusting	the	overall	consumption	data	to	take	account	of	unknown	data	(i.e.,	
estimation);	or	adjusting	the	denominator	to	better	correspond	with	the	known	water	consumption.
 
Further guidance 
Since the necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within this Performance Measure, 
there is no need for a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. 
Please refer to ESRS E3-4 29 for detailed information regarding the relationship between this Performance 
Measure and EU regulation, which highlights the preferred method of calculating water intensity.
This section should be read in conjunction with Water-Abs of this document.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
36

--- PDF SEITE 37 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Waste-Abs refers to the total amount of waste disposed and diverted of via various disposal and diversion methods 
routes over a full reporting year.
Issue 
Construction and demolition waste associated with the built environment accounts for more than a third of all 
waste generated in the EU.54 However, waste reporting by the real estate sector is often limited in scope, accuracy 
and	detail.	The	EU’s	recent	Circular	Economy	Action	Plan	illustrates	continued	efforts	to	limit	waste	to	landfill,	
improve waste management, and promote the sustainable use of resources across all industries, 55 with the 
built environment being noted as a priority sector. 56	Additionally,	green	building	certification	schemes	(notably	
BREEAM and LEED), are placing increasing emphasis on waste management and recycling strategies, further 
indicating continued efforts within the industry to minimise waste and maximise resource life cycles. 57, 58
Rationale 
Information about the disposal destination reveals the extent to which a company has managed the balance 
between	disposal	options	and	environmental	impacts.	For	example,	landfill	and	recycling	create	very	different	
types of environmental impacts and residual effects. Most waste minimisation strategies prioritise options for 
recovery, reuse or recycling over other disposal options. 
Reporting	data	on	waste	disposed	and	diverted	figures	over	several	years	should	encourage	an	investment	
property company to improve its waste management process (i.e., through more productive disposal routes) 
and	reduce	the	amount	of	waste	generated	at	its	assets.	From	a	financial	perspective,	the	reduction	of	waste	
contributes directly to lower costs associated with materials, processing and disposal, whilst increasing material 
recovery in waste reduction procedures enables high value resource items to be reused and recycled, limiting 
further costs and aiding the transition to a circular economy. Organisations may also seek to collaborate with 
waste management service providers and engage with tenants and occupiers to create a culture of waste 
reduction	and	resource	efficiency.
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the:
1. Total amount (in tonnes) of waste disposed and diverted of by disposal and diversion routes over a full 
reporting	year;
2. The proportion of waste disposed of by disposal route according to type (non-hazardous and hazardous) in 
tonnes or as a percentage.
Waste-Abs should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standards 306-4 and 306-5):
• Identify the total amount of waste disposed and diverted, including:
	 –	 Hazardous	waste	(as	defined	by	national	legislation	at	the	point	of	generation);	and
 – Non-hazardous waste (all other forms of solid or liquid waste excluding waste water).
4.14 WASTE-ABS	TOTAL	WEIGHT	OF	WASTE
	 BY	DISPOSAL	AND	DIVERSION	ROUTES
 Asset-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
37
Annual metric tonnes and
proportion by disposal/
diversion routes
54 https:/ /environment.ec.europa.eu/topics/waste-and-recycling/construction-and-demolition-waste_en 
55 https:/ /environment.ec.europa.eu/strategy/circular-economy-action-plan_en	
56 https://www.eea.europa.eu/publications/building-renovation-where-circular-economy 
57 BREEAM New construction - BRE Group 
58 https://www.usgbc.org/leed/v41
RECOMMENDATIONS

--- PDF SEITE 38 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
• Report the proportion of waste by type (non-hazardous and hazardous) disposed and diverted of by the 
following disposal and diversion routes:
 – Reuse
 – Recycling
 – Composting
 – Materials Recovery Facility (MRF)59
 – Incineration with or without energy recovery
	 –	 Landfill	(with	or	without	energy	recovery)
 – Other
• If no weight data is available, estimate the weight using available information on waste density and volume 
collected, mass balances or similar information. Estimation assumptions and methodology should be clearly stated.
• If hazardous waste is not disposed and diverted at any of the properties in the portfolio, this element of the sus-
tainability performance measure should be reported as ‘Not applicable’.
 
BRIDGE	REQUIREMENT:	If applicable, companies should report the total breakdown of its waste composition 
based on materials present in the waste, relevant to its sector or activities (based on GRI 306-3 and ESRS E5-5 38 
a to b). Materials that are present in the waste may include but is not limited to:
 - Metals
 - Plastics
 - Biomass
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 306-3: Waste generated, 306-4: Waste diverted from disposal, and 
306-5: Waste directed to disposal. 
For detailed information on the relationship between this Performance Measures and EU regulation, please see 
ESRS E5-5 37 a to d and 38 b, which necessitates the information an undertaking must provide on its resource 
outflows.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
38
59	 While	MRF	is	an	immediate	disposal	route,	if	the	final	destination	of	waste	handled	by	MRF	is	known	companies	should	allocate	such	
waste to the other categories.

--- PDF SEITE 39 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Waste-LfL refers to the waste disposed and diverted from a portfolio that has been consistently in operation, and 
not	under	development,	during	the	two	most	recent	full	reporting	years	(this	like-for-like	definition	is	aligned	with	
the	EPRA	Financial	BPR	like-for-like	definition	for	rental	growth	reporting).60 For example, the 2023 like-for-like 
change compares the 2023 Waste-Abs with the 2022 Waste-Abs for a consistent portfolio.
Rationale
Like-for-like Performance Measures are a necessary complement to absolute Performance Measures as disclosure 
on	a	like-for-like	basis	shows	a	change	in	performance	is	not	affected	by	fluctuations	in	the	size	of	portfolios	
(through acquisitions, disposals, major refurbishments and developments).
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the total amount of like-for-like waste disposed and diverted across the two most 
recent reporting years.
Waste-LfL	should be calculated as follows (based on GRI Standards 306-4 and 306-5):
• Calculate the total waste disposed and diverted for the like-for-like set of assets (i.e., those that have been 
consistently in operation, and not under development, during the most recent two full reporting years) using 
the	same	methodology	used	to	calculate	Waste-Abs.	These	calculations	should	be	reported	as	total	figures,	not	
solely as a percentage change.
• Companies should disclose the basis and assumptions underlying the like-for-like information.
•	 High	variation	in	vacancy	rates:	While	companies	can	use	significant	changes	in	vacancy	rates	as	an	explanation	
(akin to ‘special events’) of unusual consumption trends, such cases should be explicitly stated and consumption 
should not be excluded from the totals due to variations in vacancy rates.
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 306-3: Waste generated, 306-4: Waste diverted from disposal, and 
306-5: Waste directed to disposal. This section should be read in conjunction with the Waste-Abs section of this 
document.
Necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within the Waste-Abs BRIDGE REQUIREMENT.
RECOMMENDATIONS
4.15 WASTE-LFL	LIKE-FOR-LIKE	TOTAL	 
WEIGHT	OF	WASTE	BY	DISPOSAL	 
AND	DIVERSION	ROUTES
 Asset-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
39
annual metric tonnes and
proportion by disposal/
diversion routes
60 https:/ /www.epra.com/application/files/3115/7287/4349/EPRA_BPR_Guidelines_241019.pdf

--- PDF SEITE 40 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Cert-Tot refers to the total number of assets within a portfolio that have formally obtained sustainability 
certification,	rating	or	labelling	at	the	end	of	a	reporting	year.
Issue 
Sustainable	construction,	management	and	redevelopment	certification	and	labelling	schemes	exist	worldwide	for	
building and infrastructure assets and vary between markets. In 2021, around 4.2 billion square meters of green 
building	space	had	been	certified	globally. 61 Each scheme uses its own methodology to assess the overall level of 
sustainability. These frameworks explore issues such as energy and water use, indoor air quality, material usage 
and accessibility, among other factors.
Rationale 
The	level	of	compliance	with	mandatory	(such	as	Energy	Performance	Certificates)	and	voluntary	certification	
schemes (such as LEED, BREEAM, and HQE, etc.) can assist in assessing and communicating the sustainability 
credentials	of	an	asset.	Thus,	provision	of	certification	information	may	be	of	relevance	to	some	report	readers.
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies	should	report	the	type	and	number	of	sustainability	certification,	rating	or	labelling	schemes	
valid at the end of the reporting period.
Cer t-Tot should be reported in at least one of the following ways: 
•	 By	percentage	of	the	portfolio’s	total	value	and	level	of	certification	attained;
•	 By	percentage	of	the	portfolio’s	total	floor	area	or	units	(in	the	case	of	residential	portfolios)	and	level	of	
certification 	attained. 
ADDITIONAL: 	Reporters	may	additionally	disclose	sustainability	certification,	rating	or	labelling	as	follows:
•	 Total	number	of	assets	that	have	achieved	a	certification,	rating	or	labelling	within	a	portfolio	and	level	of		
certification 	attained;
•	 Percentage	of	assets	that	have	achieved	a	certification,	rating	or	labelling	within	a	portfolio	within	a	portfolio.
 
Further guidance 
Since the necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within this Performance Measure, 
there is no need for a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. For detailed information on the relationship between this 
Performance Measure and EU regulation, please refer to ESRS E1-9 67 c, which necessitates the breakdown of 
the	undertaking’s	carrying	value	of	assets	by	energy	efficiency	classes	and	ESRS	E1-9	AR	73	b,	provides	further	
details on the breakdown methodology and how to proceed if this information cannot be obtained.
RECOMMENDATIONS
4.16 CERT-TOT	TYPE	AND	NUMBER	OF	
SUSTAINABLY	CERTIFIED	ASSETS
 Asset-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
40
Total number by
certification/rating/
labelling scheme
61 https://worldgbc.org/sustainable-building-certifications/

--- PDF SEITE 41 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
5
5.1 DIVERSITY-EMP	EMPLOYEE	 
GENDER	DIVERSITY
 Corporate-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
EPRA Sustainability Performance 
Measures - Social
41
Definition 
Diversity-Emp refers to the percentage of male and female employees in the organisation’s governance bodies 
and	other	significant	employee	categories.
Issue 
The value of having a diverse workforce is widely recognised. Promoting gender diversity remains a priority for 
many companies and women often remain underrepresented at management levels in the corporate pipeline, with 
disparity especially common among senior leadership. 62 Comparisons between board-level, senior management 
and other employee categories offer information on the degree by which equal opportunities commitments are 
embedded throughout the company.
Rationale 
Diversity-Emp provides a quantitative measure of gender diversity within an organisation. Reporting gender 
diversity should encourage companies to measure and manage the success of their efforts to promote gender 
diversity, as well as providing a quantitative measure of diversity that can be used in conjunction with sectorial or 
regional benchmarks. Secondly, reporting on this Performance Measure can support companies in their reporting 
against the mandatory diversity reporting requirements that are steadily being introduced, such as in the United 
Kingdom the Financial Conduct Authority requires companies, on a comply or explain basis, to ensure that at least 
one senior board position, and 40% of the board is occupied by women. 63 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the percentage of male and female employees in the organisation’s governance 
bodies	and	other	significant	employee	categories.
Diversity-Emp should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 405-1):
• An employee refers to an individual who is in a direct employment relationship with the reporting organisation 
(excluding supervised workers and sub-contractors), according to national law or its application. 
• Governance body refers to the committee or board responsible for the strategic guidance of the organisation, 
the effective monitoring of management, and the accountability of management to the broader organisation 
and its stakeholders. For the purposes of this Performance Measure, the governance body would typically refer 
the Board of Directors of the company, and the scope includes Non-Executive Directors. 
Percentage of male
& female employees
RECOMMENDATIONS
62 https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/earningsandworkinghours/bulletins/genderpaygapintheuk/2023 
63 https:/ /www.fca.org.uk/news/press-releases/fca-finalises-proposals-boost-disclosure-diversity-listed-company-boards-executive-
committees#:~:text=At%20least%2040%25%20of%20the,SID)%20should%20be%20a%20woman

--- PDF SEITE 42 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
42
•	 Other	significant	employee	categories	refer	to	senior	management	and	non-management	functions.	
Organisations	can	use	their	discretion	in	determining	the	definition	applied	to	other	significant	employee	
categories.	As	a	guide,	senior	management	can	be	defined	as	managers	(other	than	directors)	who	have	
responsibility	for	planning,	directing	or	controlling	the	activities	of	the	entity,	or	a	strategically	significant	part	
of it.
 
BRIDGE	REQUIREMENT:	Companies are encouraged to disclose the distribution of their employeess by age, by 
both number and percentage using the following age ranges (based on ESRS S1-9 66 b): 
•	 under	30	years	old;	
•	 30-50	years	old;	
• over 50 years old
 
Further guidance  
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees. 
For detailed information on the relationship between this Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see 
ESRS S1-9 66a, which necessitates the disclosure of employee diversity, and ESRS 2 GOV-1 21 d, which considers 
the diversity of the undertaking’s board.
Fourth edition April 2024

--- PDF SEITE 43 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Diversity-Pay refers to the ratio of the basic salary and/or remuneration of men to women.
Issue 
A company’s commitment to diversity should apply equally to recruitment, development, and remuneration. While 
there can be a number of causes behind gender pay gaps, companies’ efforts to tackle gender pay gaps can indicate 
the effectiveness of their commitment to reviewing their operations and decisions in order to promote diversity, 
eliminate gender bias and support equal opportunity. The issue is under increasing legislative scrutiny, most notably 
illustrated through recent updates to the European Union’s Pay Transparency Directive (2023), where organisations 
will be required to share information regarding salaries and take action if the gender pay gap exceeds 5%.64
Rationale 
Diversity-Pay can be used to measure the extent of remuneration equality in the workplace. Increasing 
transparency in this area can raise the issue among an organisation’s stakeholders.
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the ratio of the basic salary and/or remuneration of male and female employees, 
governance	bodies	and	other	significant	employee	categories.
Diversity-Pay should be calculated with reference to the following guidelines (based on GRI Standard 405-2): 
•	 Basic	salary	refers	to	the	fixed,	minimum	amount	paid	to	an	employee	for	performing	their	duties,	excluding	any	
additional remuneration, such as payments for overtime working, bonuses and/or share options. 
• Remuneration refers to the basic salary plus additional amounts paid to a worker. According to GRI guidance, 
these additional amounts can include those based on years of service, bonuses including cash and equity 
(such	as	stocks	and	shares),	benefit	payments,	overtime,	time	owed	and	any	additional	allowances	(such	as	
transportation along with living and childcare allowances). 
•	 Governance	bodies	and	other	significant	employee	categories	should	mirror	the	categories	identified	under	
Diversity-Emp. 
• The ratio can be calculated by dividing the average pay and/or remuneration of male employees by the average 
pay and/or remuneration of female employees according to each employee category being assessed. 
• Reporting companies may use the narrative on performance to explain the pay ratio and any actions being 
taken to address any gaps.
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men. 
Since the necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within this Performance Measure, 
there is no need for a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. For detailed information on the relationship between this 
Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see ESRS S1-16 97 a, which necessitates the disclosure of the 
undertaking’s male-to-female employee pay gap.
5.2 DIVERSITY-PAY	GENDER	PAY	RATIO
 Corporate-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
43
Pay ratio
RECOMMENDATIONS
64 https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/pay-transparency/

--- PDF SEITE 44 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Emp-Training refers to the average hours of training that the organisation’s employees have undertaken in the 
reporting period.
Issue 
Developing and retaining talent can increase a company’s competitiveness. Talent developed and retained 
enhances know-how, increases the potential for innovation and supports a strong corporate reputation. Evidence 
shows that companies who invest in the development of their employees have improved employee satisfaction 
levels, higher retention rates and increased productivity levels. 65
Rationale 
Emp-Training provides an insight into the scale and commitment of an organisation’s investment in training and 
the degree to which the investment is made across the entire employee base. To help reach sustainability targets, 
organisations are increasingly implementing ESG training to ensure employee awareness of current and future 
environmental,	societal	and	governance	issues.	Such	training	identifies	how	the	company	can	impact	and	be	
impacted by ESG issues, strategies to reduce such impacts, and the importance of individual employee efforts in 
reaching organisational sustainability targets.
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the average hours of training that the organisation’s employees have undertaken 
in the reporting period.
Emp-Training should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 404-1):
• ‘Employee’ refers to direct employees (excluding supervised workers and sub-contractors) who are based at the 
organisation’s	offices	and	assets	under	management.	The	denominator	used	to	calculate	the	average	should	be	
the total number of employees at the end of the reporting period and can be expressed as either head count or 
Full-Time Equivalent (FTE).
• In the context of this performance measure, ‘training’ refers to:
	 –	 all	types	of	vocational	training	and	instruction;
	 –	 paid	educational	leave	provided	by	an	organisation	for	its	employees;
	 –	 training	or	education	pursued	externally	and	paid	for	in	whole	or	in	part	by	an	organisation;
	 –	 training	on	specific	topics.
• Training does not include onsite coaching by supervisors.
• Reporting companies may use the narrative on performance to explain the type and subjects covered in the 
training provided, and any explanation of trends if multiple years’ data is provided.
ADDITIONAL:  Companies may also disclose the average hours of training by gender and employe ecategory, 
based	on	the	employee	data	and	categories	identified	in	response	to	Diversity-Emp.
RECOMMENDATIONS
5.3 EMP-TRAINING	TRAINING	 
AND	DEVELOPMENT
 Corporate-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
44
Average number of hours
65 https://hbr.org/2022/04/3-ways-to-boost-retention-through-professional-development

--- PDF SEITE 45 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee. 
Since the necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within this Performance Measure, 
there is no need for a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. For detailed information on the relationship between this 
Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see ESRS S1-13 83 b, which necessitates a categorised 
breakdown of the undertaking’s employee training hours. An undertaking’s anti-corruption/anti-bribery training 
also need to be disclosed under the ESRS, although this disclosure is not mandatory in the sBPR, please see ESRS 
G1-3 21 a to b, for more details.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
45 Fourth edition April 2024

--- PDF SEITE 46 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Emp-Dev refers to the percentage of total employees who received regular performance and career development 
reviews during the reporting period.
Issue 
Regular performance and career development reviews aid the personal development of individual employees and 
contributes to skills management and the development of human capital within the organisation. A demonstrable 
commitment to employee development can, in turn, foster high levels of employee satisfaction, which correlates 
with improved organisational performance and retention rates.
Rationale 
Emp-Dev measures the extent to which an organisation regularly appraises employee performance. It helps to 
demonstrate how an organisation works to monitor and maintain the skill sets of its employees and the extent to 
which this is applied throughout the organisation, and whether there is equal access to these opportunities.
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the percentage of total employees who received a regular performance and career 
development review during the reporting period.
Emp-Dev should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 404-3):
• ‘Employees’ refers to direct employees (excluding supervised workers and sub-contractors) who are based at 
the	organisation’s	offices	and	assets	under	management.	The	denominator	used	to	calculate	the	percentage	
should be the total number of employees at the end of the reporting period. 
•	 Regular	performance	and	career	development	reviews	can	be	identified	as	a	review:	
	 -	based	on	criteria	known	to	the	employee	and	his	or	her	superior	and;	
 - undertaken with the knowledge of the employee at least once a year. 
• The review can include an evaluation of the employee’s direct superior, peers or a wider range of employees and 
can also include the human resources department.
 
ADDITIONAL: 	Reporters may also disclose the percentage of employees who received a regular performance and 
career development review by gender and by employee category, based on the information collected in response 
to Diversity-Emp.
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 
career development reviews. 
Since the necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within this Performance Measure, 
there is no need for a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. For detailed information on the relationship between this 
Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see ESRS S1-13 83 a, which necessitates the categorised 
breakdown and percentage of the undertaking’s employees receiving performance and career reviews.
RECOMMENDATIONS
5.4 EMP-DEV	EMPLOYEE	 
PERFORMANCE	APPRAISALS
 Corporate-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
46
Percentage of total workforce

--- PDF SEITE 47 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Emp-Turnover refers to the total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover during the 
reporting period.
Issue 
New hires and employee turnover result in changes to the human and intellectual capital of the organisation and 
can have both positive and negative impacts on productivity. The level of employee turnover can have direct cost 
implications either in terms of reduced payroll or greater expenses for the recruitment of employees. A high rate 
of employee turnover, moreover, can indicate levels of uncertainty and dissatisfaction among employees.
Rationale 
Emp-Turnover can indicate a company’s ability to attract and retain employees. Reporting the number and rate 
of new hires and employee turnover can signify the effectiveness of a company’s efforts to retain talent. In 
addition, by understanding the reasons why staff leave an organisation, strategies can be developed to reduce 
turnover rates to improve overall retention.66 It also acts as proxy measures of the effectiveness of efforts to 
boost	engagement	and	satisfaction	levels.	Acting	to	reduce	employee	turnover	may	also	limit	the	financial	cost	of	
recruiting and training procedures associated with gaining new employees.
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the:
1. Total	employee	headcount;
2. Total	number	and	rate	of	new	employee	hires;
3. Total number and rate of employee turnover.
Emp-Turnover	should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 401-1):
• New hire and turnover rates should be calculated based on the total employee numbers at the end of the 
reporting period and expressed as a percentage or ratio.
• ‘Turnover’ refers to employees who leave the organisation voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement or death in 
service.
• ‘Employee’ refers to direct employees (excluding supervised workers and sub-contractors) who are based at the 
organisation’s	offices	and	assets	under	management.
ADDITIONAL:  Reporters may also disclose the total number and rate of new employee hires and turnover by 
gender and by employee category, based on the information collected in response to Diversity-Emp.
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover. 
Since the necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within this Performance Measure, 
there is no need for a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. For detailed information on the relationship between this 
Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see ESRS S1-6 50 c, which necessitates the disclosure of the 
undertaking’s employee turnover rate, broken down into various categories.
RECOMMENDATIONS
5.5 EMP-TURNOVER	EMPLOYEE	 
TURNOVER	AND	RETENTION
 Corporate-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
47
Total number and rate of new 
employee hires and turnover
66 https://www.cipd.org/uk/knowledge/factsheets/turnover-retention-factsheet/#:~:text=Measuring%20the%20levels%20and%20 
costs,and%20informing%20targeted%20retention%20initiatives

--- PDF SEITE 48 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
H&S-Emp refers to the occupational health and safety performance of the reporting organisation with relation to 
its direct employees.
Issue 
Health and safety incidents occurring in the workplace can cause harm to workers and expose companies to risks 
such	as	reputational	damage,	fines,	and	loss	of	productivity.	Low	injury	and	absentee	rates	are	generally	linked	
to positive trends in morale and productivity. Maintaining a constant focus on health and safety is necessary to 
ensure safe behaviours are embedded into the workplace. Accurate monitoring can help to protect employees and 
contribute to employee well-being.
Rationale 
H&S-Emp measures the degree by which health and safety management practices are resulting in fewer 
occupational injuries, lost days and absenteeism rates.
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the Injury Rate (IR), Lost Day Rate (LDR) or Accident Severity Rate (ASR), 
Absentee Rate (AR), and work-related fatalities for all direct employees (where material). 
H&S-Emp should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 403-9): 
• ‘Injury Rate’ refers to the frequency of injuries, relative to the total time worked by all employees during the 
reporting period. It can be expressed as the number of injuries (the numerator) per multiple of hours worked 
(the denominator). An injury refers to any non-fatal or fatal injury arising out of, or in the course of, work. 
•	 ‘Lost	Day	Rate’	refers	to	the	impact	of	occupational	accidents	and	diseases	as	reflected	in	time	off	work	by	
the affected employees. It can be expressed as the total lost days (the numerator) relative to the total number 
of hours worked (the denominator). A lost day typically refers to the time (‘days’) that cannot be worked 
as a consequence of an employee or employees being unable to perform their usual work because of an 
occupational disease or accident. 
• 'Accident Severity Rate’ can be selected as an alternative to the Lost Day Rate for companies that are required 
to report occupation accidents under this indicator. In this case, occupational diseases can be reported under 
the Absentee Rate. 
• ‘Absentee Rate’ is a measure of actual absentee days lost. It can be expressed as a proportion of total days 
lost (the numerator) relative to the total number of days scheduled to be worked by employees for the same 
period (the denominator). Absentee refers to an employee absent from work because of incapacity of any kind 
such as illness, not just as the result of work-related injury or disease, excluding permitted absences (e.g., 
holidays, study, maternity or paternity leave, and compassionate leave). Companies reporting absentee rate are 
encouraged to provide a breakdown of absentee rate by cause. 
• ‘Work-related fatality’ refers to the death of an employee occurring in the current reporting period, arising from 
an occupational disease or injury sustained or contracted while performing work controlled by the organisation 
or in workplaces the organisation controls.
• The scope of this Performance Measure covers direct employees only, excluding supervised workers and sub-
contractors,	who	are	based	at	the	organisation’s	offices	and	assets	under	management	(i.e.,	whose	work,	or	
workplace) is controlled by the reporting company. 
• If one or more of the requested indicators is not considered material, reporting organisations can apply the 
Overarching Recommendation of Materiality when determining what information to provide.
RECOMMENDATIONS
5.6 H&S-EMP	EMPLOYEE	HEALTH	 
AND	SAFETY
 Corporate-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
48
Injury rate, lost day rate, 
absentee rate and 
work-related fatalities

--- PDF SEITE 49 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
ADDITIONAL:  Reporters may also disclose the injury rate (IR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-
related fatalities for all workers whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organisation. In this instance, 
workers	can	be	defined	as	interns,	apprentices,	self-employed	persons,	and	persons	working	for	organisations	
other than the reporting organisation (e.g., for suppliers, contractors and sub-contractors).
 
BRIDGE	REQUIREMENT:	Companies should also disclose the percentage of people in its own workforce who are 
protected by health and safety management systems on a legal basis and or based on recongised standards or 
guidelines (based on ESRS S1-14 88).
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 403-9: Work-related injuries. 
For detailed information on the relationship between this Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see 
ESRS S1-14 88, which necessitates the disclosure of the undertaking’s health and safety indicators.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
49 Fourth version October 2023

--- PDF SEITE 50 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
H&S-Asset refers to the proportion of assets controlled by the reporting company for which health and safety 
impacts have been reviewed or assessed for compliance or improvement.
Issue 
Responsibility for end user (tenants, visitors, service suppliers and other building users) health and safety impacts 
that	fall	under	the	management	responsibility	of	landlords	can	vary	significantly	across	assets	types:	from	
indoor	air	quality	to	fire	and	elevator	safety;	disabled	access;	and	training,	disaster	management	and	emergency	
procedures. Health and safety assessments may be conducted as part of a voluntary or mandatory arrangement 
according to health and safety management policies and procedures, legislation or to ensure compliance with the 
use of established standards such as OHSAS 18001 or other HSE standards.
Rationale 
H&S-Asset	identifies	the	existence	and	scope	of	efforts	to	address	end	user	health	and	safety	at	assets	under	the	
operational control of the reporting company.
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the percentage of assets for which health and safety impacts are assessed or 
reviewed for compliance or improvement.
H&S-Asset should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 416-1): 
• ‘Assessments’ can refer to mandatory and voluntary assessments and reviews, as well as internal and external 
audits/re-assessments. For example, mandatory assessments might be those carried out as part of OHSAS 
18001	certification.	Voluntary	assessments	can	include	annual	health	and	safety	reviews,	audits	and	compliance	
checks conducted as part of the reporting company’s health and safety management policy. Companies should 
disclose the type of assessment included in the calculation as part of their narrative on performance. 
• ‘Health and safety impacts’ relate to the impact on end users, such as building occupiers or visitors. Examples 
of	impacts	can	include	indoor	air	quality	standards;	fire	safety;	mechanical	systems;	accessibility	standards	
(including	during	normal	operation,	and	in	the	case	of	emergency);	indoor	water	quality;	and	hazardous	
substances and contaminants, including asbestos. 
• Organisations should restrict the scope of their reporting to assets that fall under their responsibility and over 
which they have management control. Assets that fall under the responsibility of the occupiers are excluded 
from this Performance Measure.
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and 
service categories.
There are no related metrics for ESRS compliance to form a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. However, companies may 
consider the health and safety of consumers and end-users as a result of a materiality assessment. In this instance 
refer to ESRS S4.
RECOMMENDATIONS
5.7 H&S-ASSET	ASSET	HEALTH	 
AND	SAFETY	ASSESSMENTS
 Asset-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
50
Percentage of assets

--- PDF SEITE 51 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
H&S-Comp refers to any incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary standard concerning the 
health and safety impacts of assets assessed during the reporting period.
Issue 
Ensuring compliance regulations and or voluntary standards with regard to health and safety impacts can help 
to	protect	building	users,	reduce	costs	from	fines	and	protect	a	company’s	reputation.	Low	incidences	of	non-
compliance demonstrate the effective implementation of policies, practices and training relating to end user 
health and safety. Maintaining a constant focus on health and safety is necessary to ensure safe behaviours are 
embedded into asset management practices that relate to end users.
Rationale 
H&S-Comp evaluates the effectiveness of the reporting company’s policies and practices relating to end user 
health and safety, and the outcome of the assessments reported under H&S-Asset.
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report any incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 
the health and safety impacts of assets assessed during the reporting period.
H&S-Comp should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 416-2): 
• To report against this Performance Measure, organisations should restrict the scope to assets and assessments 
identified	under	H&S-Asset.	
•	 If	the	organisation	has	not	identified	any	non-compliance	with	regulations	and/or	voluntary	codes,	a	brief	
statement	of	this	is	sufficient.
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 416-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 
impacts of products and services. 
This section should be read in conjunction with the H&S-Asset section of this document.
There are no related metrics for ESRS compliance to form a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. However, companies may 
consider the health and safety of consumers and end-users as a result of a materiality assessment. In this instance 
refer to ESRS S4.
RECOMMENDATIONS
5.8 H&S-COMP	ASSET	HEALTH	 
AND	SAFETY	COMPLIANCE
 Asset-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
51
Number of incidents

--- PDF SEITE 52 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Comty-Eng relates to the percentage of assets under operational control that have implemented local community 
engagement, impact assessments and/or development programmes.
Issue 
Engagement with the local community can be particularly important for owners and investors of asset types, 
such as retail and residential. Establishing an effective stakeholder engagement process is important for helping 
organisations understand how local communities might be affected by their assets, including their actual and 
potential impacts. This enables an organisation to consider the views of community stakeholders in its decisions, 
their expectations and needs, and to address its potential impacts on local communities in a timely manner. 
The introduction of requirements through the CSRD to conduct double materiality assessments is pushing 
many organisations to assess their impact on society and strengthen their stakeholder engagement processes. 
Furthermore, ensuring community engagement measures is of growing relevance within sustainable building 
certifications	(predominantly	those	of	WELL	and	Fitwel),	illustrating	an	increasing	trend	of	community	support	
and inclusion within sustainability-driven, intentionally created spaces. 67, 68
Rationale 
Comty-Eng seeks to measure the extent by which community engagement programmes are applied across the 
reporting organisation’s assets. 
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the percentage of assets that have implemented local community engagement, 
impact assessments and/or development programmes.
Comty-Eng should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 413-1):
• There are many elements that can be incorporated into local community engagement, impact assessments, 
and development programmes. For the purposes of this performance measure, organisations can use their 
discretion to determine what constitutes a ‘community programme’. Companies may identify programmes 
according to two broad categories:
 – Social and environmental impact assessments: This can include the impact of an asset on the local   
 economy and inhabitants, community and environment. It may include ongoing monitoring and    
	 local	community	and	development	programmes	based	on	the	local	communities’	needs;  
– Stakeholder engagement programmes: This can include broad-based local community consultation   
 committees and formal local community outreach processes.
• A description of the type of programme used by the organisation, including whether it is a corporate policy 
that applies across all activities or an individual asset-level programme, should be added to the narrative on 
performance.
RECOMMENDATIONS
5.9 COMTY-ENG	COMMUNITY	ENGAGEMENT,	
IMPACT	ASSESSMENTS	AND	 
DEVELOPMENT	PROGRAMMES
 Asset-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
52
Percentage of assets
67 https:/ /v2.wellcertified.com/en/wellv2/overview 
68 https:/ /www.fitwel.org/resources/p/fitwel-v21-reference-guide-for-workplace-1

--- PDF SEITE 53 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments and development programmes. 
Since the necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within this Performance Measure, 
there is no need for a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. For detailed information on the relationship between this 
Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see ESRS S3-2 19 to 24, which requires the undertaking to 
provide insights into its process of community engagement and ESRS S3-4 36, which necessitates the disclosure 
of human rights infringements within associated communities.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
53 Fourth edition April 2024

--- PDF SEITE 54 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Gov-Board refers to the composition of the highest governance body.
Issue 
The composition of a company’s highest governance body provides an insight into the range of opinions, 
backgrounds and expertise that support its corporate governance. A diverse board	instils	confidence	in	 
decision-making, independence, its ability to deliver value and the skills required to consider the broader  
social and environmental factors that could impact the long-term future of the company.
Rationale 
Gov-Board provides an overview of the company’s governance structure and its board composition, and their 
competencies in evaluating economic, environmental and social performance.
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must report the composition of the highest governance body by:
1.	 Number	of	executive	board	members;
2.	 Number 	of	independent/non-executive	board	members;
3. Average	tenure	on	the	governance	body;
4. Number of independent/non-executive board members with competencies relating to environmental and 
social topics.
Gov-Board should be calculated with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 2-9): 
• ‘Highest governance body’ refers to the committee or board responsible for the strategic guidance of the 
organisation, the effective monitoring of management and the accountability of management to the broader 
organisation and its stakeholders. For the purposes of this Performance Measure, the highest governance body 
is	that	identified	under	Diversity-Emp.	
• The number of independent/non-executive board members with competencies relating to environmental and 
social topics can be disclosed by the provision of qualitative information such as biographies detailing the 
competencies and experience of each member.
• Organisations that are required to report this information under national corporate governance codes can 
provide a clear reference to where the relevant information is located (either in their annual report or other 
corporate communications).
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 2-9: Governance structure and composition. 
Since the necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within this Performance Measure, 
there is no need for a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. For detailed information on the relationship between this 
Performance Measure and EU regulation, please see ESRS 2 GOV-1 20 and 23, which necessitates the composition 
and expertise of the undertaking’s supervisory bodies.
RECOMMENDATIONS
6
6.1 GOV-BOARD	COMPOSITION	OF	THE	HIGHEST	
GOVERNANCE	BODY
 Corporate-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
EPRA Sustainability Performance 
Measures - Governance
54
Total numbers

--- PDF SEITE 55 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Gov-Select refers to the nomination and selection process for the highest governance body and its members, and 
the criteria used to guide the nomination and selection process.
Issue 
The OECD’s guidance on good practice corporate governance disclosure recommends that organisations provide 
transparency around the selection process for members of the highest governance body, focusing on whether 
the	process	was	open	to	a	broad	field	of	candidates. 69 This Performance Measure provides assurances on the 
organisation’s	compliance	with	established	nomination	procedures	and	the	selection	of	a	balanced	and	qualified	
board composition.
Rationale 
Gov-Select describes the reporting organisation’s processes that ensure effective corporate governance. It 
provides evidence that the composition of board membership reported under Gov-Board is maintained or 
enhanced.
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies must describe the nomination and selection process for the highest governance body and its 
members, and the criteria used to guide the nomination and selection process.
Gov-Select should be prepared with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 2-10):
•	 Report	the	nomination	and	selection	processes	for	the	highest	governance	body	and	its	committees;
• Report the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including whether 
and how:
	 –	 Stakeholders	(including	shareholders)	are	involved;
	 –	 Diversity 	is	considered;
	 –	 Independence 	is	considered;
 – Expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered.
• Organisations that are required to report this information under national corporate governance codes can 
provide a clear reference to where the relevant information is located (either in their annual report or other 
corporate communications).
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the relevant GRI Standard 2-10: Nomination and selection of the highest governance body.
There are no related metrics for ESRS compliance to form a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. However, companies 
may	refer	to	terms	defined	in	the	ESRS,	specifically,	'Administrative,	management	and	supervisory	bodies'	and	
'Independent board member'.
RECOMMENDATIONS
6.2 GOV-SELECT	NOMINATING	AND	SELECTING	
THE	HIGHEST	GOVERNANCE	BODY
 Corporate-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
55
Narrative description
69 https:/ /www.oecd-ilibrary.org/governance/g20-oecd-principles-of-corporate-governance-2023_ed750b30-en;jsessionid=gJfKCdu
QsrpEZ7cdC7g0Bo-PHCi3FjwDBicLY05g.ip-10-240-5-121

--- PDF SEITE 56 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Definition 
Gov-COI	refers	to	the	processes	for	the	highest	governance	body	to	ensure	conflicts	of	interest	are	avoided	and	
managed.
Issue 
The OECD recommends that information on individual board members and key executives is necessary to 
evaluate	their	experience	and	qualifications	and	assess	any	potential	conflicts	of	interest	that	might	affect	their	
judgement.70	Companies	should,	therefore,	disclose	how	they	manage	material	conflicts	of	interest	that	may	affect	
the exercise of key ownership rights regarding their investments, including share ownership in the company and 
membership of other boards. It is important to disclose membership of other boards, not only because it is an 
indication of experience and possible time pressures facing a member of the board, but also, because it may reveal 
potential	conflicts	of	interest	and	makes	transparent	the	degree	to	which	there	are	inter-locking	boards.
Rationale 
Gov-COI provides assurances to shareholders and other stakeholders that the highest governance body has 
robust	procedures	in	place	to	manage	potential	conflicts	of	interest.
 
 
 
 
CORE: Companies	must	describe	their	processes	to	ensure	that	conflicts	of	interest	are	avoided	and	managed	in	
the highest governance body.
Gov-COI should be prepared with reference to the following guidance (based on GRI Standard 2-15):
•	 ‘Conflicts	of	interest’	refers	to	situations	where	an	individual	is	confronted	with	choosing	between	the	
requirements of his or her function and his or her own private interests.
•	 Report	whether	conflicts	of	interest	are	disclosed	to	stakeholders,	including,	as	a	minimum:
	 –	 Cross-board	membership;
	 –	 Cross-shareholding	with	suppliers	and	other	stakeholders;
	 –	 Existence	of	controlling	shareholder;
 – Related party disclosure.
•	 When	compiling	the	information,	the	reporting	organisation	should	align	the	definition	of	‘controlling	
shareholder’	to	the	definition	used	for	the	purpose	of	the	organisation’s	consolidated	financial	statements	or	
equivalent documents.
• Organisations that are required to report this information under national corporate governance codes can 
provide a clear reference to where the relevant information is located (either in their annual report or other 
corporate communications).
Further guidance 
Please	refer	to	the	relevant	GRI	Standard	2-15:	Conflicts	of	interest.	
There are no related metrics for ESRS compliance to form a BRIDGE REQUIREMENT. However, companies 
may	refer	to	terms	defined	in	the	ESRS,	specifically,	'Administrative,	management	and	supervisory	bodies'	and	
'Independent board member'.
RECOMMENDATIONS
6.3 GOV-COI	PROCESS	FOR	MANAGING	
CONFLICTS	OF	INTEREST
 Corporate-level performance measure
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
56
Descriptive narrative
70 https:/ /www.oecd-ilibrary.org/governance/g20-oecd-principles-of-corporate-governance-2023_ed750b30-en

--- PDF SEITE 57 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
The following recommendations are overarching principles that should be applied to the Sustainability 
Performance Measures addressed in Sections 4, 5 and 6.
7.1 Organisational boundaries
Issue 
Boundaries determine the extent of reporting according to assets or organisational activities owned or controlled 
by the reporting company. Boundary assessments allow a company to establish which operations should be in 
and out of reporting scope for both asset-level and corporate-level Performance Measures. It is important that 
reporters	clearly	articulate	how	boundaries	are	defined	so	stakeholders	can	understand	the	extent	of	operations	
and activities included in the performance analysis.
Rationale 
Definition	of	the	company’s	organisational	boundaries	represent	a	key	step	in	sustainability	reporting.	To	date,	
the GHG Protocol, developed by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development, has been a key reference for companies to inform their decisions on what approach to adopt: 
Operational Control, Financial Control or Equity share. 71
 EPRA’s research has shown that the operational control approach has been the most frequently adopted by 
listed real estate companies in Europe for reporting on asset-level sustainability impacts. The operational control 
approach	is	defined	as	follows:72
“…A company has operational control over an operation if the former or one of its subsidiaries […] has the full 
authority to introduce and implement its operating policies at the operation…” 73 
The	operational	control	approach	should	not	be	considered	a	default	or	‘perfect	fit’	for	real	estate	companies.	
Indeed,	there	are	justifications	for	other	approaches,	such	as	equity	share	where	the	issue	of	co-ownership	can				
be addressed by determining which assets are either included or excluded from reporting. 
 
 
 
 
CORE: It should be noted that, prior to deciding which type of boundary approach a company should choose, it 
should carefully consider the following:
•	 Companies	should	map	their	organisational	structure;	specifically,	due	consideration	should	be	made	as	to	
whether assets are subsidiaries, associates, incorporated or unincorporated joint ventures.
• For asset-level performance measures, companies should disclose the value or number (absolute or % of 
portfolio) of buildings in the portfolio included in the organisational boundary approach taken.
• Companies should explain why they have chosen a certain boundary approach over others.
•	 The	issue	of	financial/operational	leases	is	important	to	consider	as	part	of	the	boundary	approach	definition.	It	
should	be	noted	that	the	GHG	Protocol	treats	assets	leased	on	financial	leases	(as	opposed	to	operational	leases)	
differently.
• Although adopting the operational approach is not mandatory, for all asset-level performance measures, 
companies should aim to report 100% of all assets where they have operational control.
 
Further guidance 
Please refer to the GRI Guidance on setting the organisational boundary and the GHG Protocol for further 
guidance on this.74
RECOMMENDATIONS
7
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
Overarching Recommendations
57
71 https:/ /ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/standards/ghg-protocol-revised.pdf 
72 www.oecd.org/corporate/ca/corporategovernanceprinciples/31557724.pdf  
73 Ibid.
74  https://www.globalreporting.org/publications/documents/english/gri-3-material-topics-2021/ and the GHG Protocol 
recommendations on ‘Setting Organisational Boundaries’ in https:/ /ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/standards/ghg-protocol-
revised.pdf

--- PDF SEITE 58 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
7.2 Coverage
Issue 
Coverage delineates what percentage or number of assets within the organisational boundary are included in data 
disclosed for each asset-level Performance Measure.
Rationale 
It may not be possible to collect data on all asset-level Performance Measures for all assets within the 
organisational boundary. A company may also prefer to exclude data for an asset if the data is not considered 
reliable. This may be the case for all or only some Performance Measures for an asset.
 
 
 
 
CORE:
• Ideally, 100% of all assets within the chosen organisational boundary should be included in each asset-level 
Performance Measure.
•	 When	this	is	not	the	case,	the	level	of	data	coverage	should	be	specified	for	each	asset-level	Performance	
Measure.
• Data coverage must be reported for each asset-level Performance Measure and can be disclosed (as values or 
percentages) in any of the following ways:
 - number of assets included in Performance Measure data
  number of assets within organisational boundary approach taken
 - floor	area	included	in	Performance	Measure	data
	 	 floor	area	of	assets	within	organisational	boundary	approach	taken
 - financial	value	included	in	Performance	Measure	data
	 	 financial	value	of	assets	within	organisational	boundary	approach	taken
• If a Performance Measure is not material for a segmented asset type, or all asset types, this should be marked 
as ‘not material’ and the reasons for this decision should be explained (see section 7.12).
RECOMMENDATIONS
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
58

--- PDF SEITE 59 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
7.3 Estimation of landlord-obtained utility consumption
Issue 
While there is a growing demand for transparent data on value chain emissions, the availability of this data is not 
improving at the same rate. Landlords often face challenges in obtaining data from their tenants or accessing 
utility consumption data that is beyond their operational control. When there is incomplete or unreliable data for 
asset-level environmental performance measures, such as landlord utility consumption and scopes 1, 2, and 3 
emissions, estimation may be required.
Rationale 
Estimation allows complete annual data to be calculated for an asset where data is partially missing or unreliable – 
though this should not be used as a substitute for gathering complete and accurate data. This allows a company to 
increase its coverage against some asset-level Performance Measures.
For companies that view energy and the associated carbon as a material risk, a deeper understanding of the GHG 
footprint	value	chain	is	critical.	The	benefits	of	accurate	measurement,	wide	internal	and	external	engagement,	
and overall reduction in scope 3 emissions will improve business resilience and reputation.
 
 
 
 
CORE: Estimation should be carried out sparingly as datasets should be as complete and accurate as possible. 
When estimating landlord-obtained utility consumption data for asset-level Performance Measures, a company 
should:
•	 Only	estimate	utility	data	to	fill	gaps	for	missing	periods	using	known	consumption	from	a	recent	and	
comparable period for the metered supply in question.
• Disclose the proportion of total disclosed data estimated (as a percentage of the total disclosed for that 
Performance Measure).
• Disclose the method of estimation used.
• Use the same method of estimation for all asset-level Performance Measures and all assets.
• If different methods of estimation have to be used, this should be clearly indicated for each Performance 
Measure.
• Assets should be excluded from the coverage of data being disclosed in the following cases:
	 –		Where	data	for	one	or	more	meters	at	an	asset	is	missing	for	an	entire	year;
 –  Where the only available data for the asset is unreliable.
 
ADDITIONAL: 	When	measuring	scope	3	GHG	emissions,	the	ESRS	and	IFRS	considers	these	figures	to	be	
estimated	on	the	basis	that	they	consist	of	the	combination	of	methods	(for	example,	precise	site-specific	data	
and	extrapolated	average-data	methods)	to	calculate	the	final	outcome.
A company may consider a hierarchy of estimation methodologies for selecting a preferred method of estimation. 
The below hierarchy is laid out according to data accuracy, and is adapted from UK GBC, Guide to Scope 3 
Reporting in Commercial Real Estate. Although the document is aimed at commercial real estate, this data 
hierarchy would be applicable to all real estate. 
1. Use actual data for all tenant energy use.
2. Where total energy use of the building is known (i.e., landlord procured), break this down for separate tenancies 
(e.g.,	by	floor	area,	tenant	use,	etc).
3. Use historic tenant data as a proxy and extrapolate using key variables (e.g., seasonal, occupancy levels). 
4. Calculate per person energy use based on a similar tenant (e.g., tenant use, building age/type, geographic 
region). 
5.	 Use	industry	benchmarks	based	on	floor	areas	(e.g.,	Real	Estate	Environmental	Benchmark,	CIBSE	Energy	
Benchmarks, Design for Performance).
6. Use modelled design stage data, supplemented by an uplift and/or energy in use data.
As per the Core recommendations, whereby a company should disclose the method of estimation used and the 
proportion of data estimated, when a company has used non-actual data to disclose scope 3 emissions, the 
proportion of estimation for indirect scope 3 emissions associated with the asset should be itemised in the EPRA 
sBPR table, with supporting methodological notes.
RECOMMENDATIONS
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
59

--- PDF SEITE 60 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Further guidance 
Since the necessary metrics for ESRS compliance are already incorporated within this Performance Measure, 
there	is	no	need	for	a	BRIDGE	REQUIREMENT.	Please	refer	to	the	ESRS	E1,	Appendix	A:	Defined	terms,	ESRS	
1 - 7.2 ‘Sources of estimation and outcome uncertainty’, IFRS S1 ‘Measurement Uncertainty’ in paragraph 78, and 
‘Errors’ in paragraphs 83-86, and IFRS S2 'Climate-related Disclosures' in paragraph B38 for more information on 
estimation and its relation to scope 3 emissions.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
60
7.4	 Third	Party	Assurance
Issue 
As assurance requirements strengthen across the European continent, EPRA encourages sustainability data to be 
assured by independent third-parties.
Rationale 
The credibility of sustainability data increases when third party assurance is carried out, and the assurance 
provider is independent and objective. An assurance process should not only test the veracity of data but also 
robustness of data management processes in the organisation. 
The ESRS mandates the limited assurance of all disclosure requirements deemed material to a company’s 
operations. A company who is verifying EPRA sBPR Performance Measures should ensure they also include 
relevant ESRS data points and visa-versa.
 
 
 
 
CORE: When undertaking third party assurance, reporters should consider the following:
•	 The	26	EPRA	sBPR	quantitative	Performance	Measures	which	should	be	verified	–	ideally	all	of	them	and	to	the	
same level (see Table 2 to identify the Performance Measures subject to assurance).
•	 The	Performance	Measures	included	in	the	scope	of	assurance	or	verification	should	be	clearly	specified	either	
in the statement, the EPRA sBPR data table or methodology narrative.
•	 The	level	of	verification	for	each	Sustainability	Performance	Measure	must	be	disclosed	(either	‘limited’	or	
‘reasonable’)	and	should	ideally	be	to	the	same	level	as	for	financial	reporting.
•	 Companies	can	choose	which	verification	methodology	to	use	and	must	disclose	this	in	their	reports.
• EPRA considers assurance credibility to be enhanced if it is undertaken in accordance with recognised limited 
assurance standards such as AA1000 or ISAE3000.
•		 The	full	verification	statement	must	be	publicly	available,	and	a	link	must	be	provided	if	it	is	not	included	in	the	
report. 
•	 Each	Performance	Measure	that	had	been	assured	should	be	indicated	either	in	the	verification	statement	
provided or made clear in the company’s data tables.
 
Further guidance 
For additional accepted assurance methods, please visit https:/ /www.cdp.net/en/guidance/verification.
RECOMMENDATIONS

--- PDF SEITE 61 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
61
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
61
7.5	 Boundaries	–	reporting	on	landlord	and	tenant	utility	consumption
Issue 
Data on tenant-obtained utility consumption for asset-level Performance Measures are not always available to the 
landlord. Sub-metering of landlord-obtained consumption that services tenant demises is not always universally 
undertaken;	even	where	it	is,	the	landlord	has	less	control	over	such	consumption	than	for	landlord	services	for	
common parts.
Rationale 
Performance Measure data disclosed on an asset-level should clarify the level of control a reporter has on the 
overall performance.
The	ESRS	and	IFRS	frameworks	require	the	disclosure	of	additional	data,	such	as	business	travel,	fleet	information, 	
and building fuels. These data points would provide more clarity on landlord boundaries, however, it is important to 
note that these data points are not included within the standing investment scope of EPRA and the sBPR.
 
 
 
 
CORE: There is no single, optimal way to report on base (landlord only) or whole building consumption. For asset-
level Performance Measures, companies should, as a minimum, report on utilities consumption that they are 
responsible for obtaining themselves. The longer-term goal should be to report the entire impact arising within a 
building, irrespective of the arrangements between landlord and tenant.
The following principles apply:
• Absolute and like-for-like asset-level Performance Measures should be clearly disclosed to clarify the split 
between landlord-obtained and tenant-obtained. 
• Where energy/water is obtained by the landlord but consumed in tenant areas and is sub-metered, such 
consumption should be itemised (but should be included in the totals).
• Exclusion of consumption obtained by the landlord but sub-metered to the tenant can present a number of 
issues, such as:
 – Distortions of intensity Performance Measures due to a likely mismatch between numerator (e.g., kWh)   
	 and	denominator	(e.g.,	floor	area).	However,	for	the	purposes	of	corporate	sustainability	target	setting	and		
 monitoring, several reporters assess performance for just the consumption over which the landlord has fuller  
 control. Itemisation of total consumption as shown in the supplementary document, Sample Data Table of   
 EPRA sBPR Sustainability Performance Measures , enables this to be done while ensuring consistency with   
 the EPRA sBPR.
• For the purposes of intensity environmental Performance Measures only, if known, tenant-obtained 
consumption can be used in calculations, for example to achieve a situation where whole building consumption 
(tenant-obtained	and	landlord-obtained)	is	divided	by	the	whole	building	floor	area.
• Waste reporting should be in line with the reporter’s operational control approach.
 
ADDITIONAL:	Where the landlords wish to disclose tenant-obtained utilities consumption, this must be reported 
separately	from	landlord-obtained	consumption	(both	absolute	and	like-for-like).	A	significant	reason	to	assess	
tenant-obtained consumption is to compare the scale of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (that are under greater landlord 
control) with scope 3 (which includes both tenant-obtained consumption and consumption sub-metered to tenants). 
Further:
• Landlords often have limited access to tenant-obtained utility data, and this varies between countries. 
• Therefore, estimation of tenant-obtained consumption is more acceptable than estimation of landlord-obtained 
consumption. 
• To estimate tenant-obtained consumption, often a sample of tenant-obtained consumption data is used to 
estimate the total tenant-obtained consumption. This should be combined with relevant emissions factors 
specific	to	different	regions	and	asset	types,	to	calculate	the	most	accurate	estimated	figures. 75 Alternatively, 
entirely theoretical modelling can be undertaken. As this topic continues to grow, there will be further guidance 
on how to report more easily with future modelling tools provided by organisations like CRREM.
RECOMMENDATIONS
75  https:/ /ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/standards/Scope3_Calculation_Guidance_0.pdf

--- PDF SEITE 62 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
7.6	 Normalisation
Issue 
Absolute utility consumption and health and safety performance data represents a good measure of a company’s 
exposure	to	risk	(including	regulatory	risks,	fiscal	liability,	etc.).	However,	absolute	performance	measures	are	
affected by increases and decreases in the size of a company’s portfolio and employee base. This makes intensity 
(normalised) indicators a useful complementary tool for stakeholders to assess companies’ environmental and 
health and safety performance.
Rationale 
For environmental Performance Measures, intensity is one of the most effective measures of a building’s overall 
efficiency	during	the	occupation	and	operational	phase	of	the	building	life	cycle.	
Some advantages of intensity Performance Measures include: 
•	 Aggregated	intensity	measures,	which	enable	changes	over	time	to	reflect	the	influence	of	acquisitions,	disposals	
and	developments/major	refurbishments	without	the	need	to	exclude	any	properties	from	aggregation	in	any	year;	
•	 Ability	to	compare	the	relative	intensity	of	different	portfolios	(e.g.,	an	office	portfolio	versus	a	shopping	centre	
portfolio). 
For health and safety Performance Measures, normalised injury, lost day and absentee rates provide an 
established benchmark to compare corporate performance over time, and between peers and industries.
 
Intensity indicators are best suited to compare a company’s performance over time, rather than for comparison 
between companies over time (unless the same methodologies are applied).
Energy, GHG emissions, water, waste and health and safety require different types of intensity indicators, as 
different factors may drive consumption and performance.
CORE: As	a	general	rule,	companies	should	define	the	exact	denominator	used	in	the	intensity	indicator,	as	well	as	
the method of matching numerator and denominator to account for different scenarios.
Recommended denominators are as follows:
• Numbers of people
	 Reporters	may	use	numbers	of	people	as	a	denominator	as	long	as	they	clearly	state	how	they	have	defined	and	
measured	it.	Please	note	that	water	benefits	most	from	the	use	of	a	‘per	person’	indicator	as	its	consumption	is	
driven by people and users of the building.
• Floor area
	 Whilst	floor	areas	used	in	sustainability	reporting	may	vary	between	and	within	different	regions,	where	possible, 	
these	should	be	consistent	with	those	used	in	financial	reporting.	This	ensures	that	the	total	portfolio	is	accurately	
represented, while being aligned with the applied organisational boundaries. For a complete representation of 
building	energy	intensity,	whole	building	operational	energy	applied	to	the	gross	floor	area	is	optimal	although	not	
always possible with the available data coverage. Please see the Energy-Int section for further guidance.
• Revenue
 Revenue can be used as a basis for intensity indicators as this can provide valuable insight when comparing the 
real estate industry to other industries. Under the ESRS requirements, revenue is the preferred denominator for 
Energy, GHG and Water intensity calculations.76, 77, 78, 79 The revenue used to calculate the intensity indicator should 
be	the	“net	rent”	received	as	derived	from	the	IFRS	financial	statement	on	the	buildings	associated	with	the	
consumption (i.e., excluding service charges revenues, asset sales proceeds, etc.).
• Days/hours worked
 Lost days and hours worked (or multiples thereof) are a standard denominator used to calculate injury, lost day, 
and absenteeism rates. They should relate to the total number of hours/days contracted to be worked by total 
number of employees or Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) included in the scope of the Performance Measure.
RECOMMENDATIONS
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
62
76 Please note that while 'Revenue' is the preferred denominator for intensity indicators according to the ESRS requirements, the EPRA 
sBPR equally accepts the other listed denominators mentioned above. 
77 Further guidance on energy intensity based on net revenue can be found in ESRS E1-5 40.
78 Further guidance on greenhouse gas intensity based on net revenue can be found in ESRS E1-6 53. 
79 Further guidance on water intensity based on net revenue can be found in ESRS E3-4 29.

--- PDF SEITE 63 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
63
7.7 Segmental analysis (by property type, geography, etc.)
Issue 
Building	types	and	their	location	may	have	a	significant	impact	on	asset-level	Performance	Measures.	Therefore,	
aggregated environmental, health and safety and community data across multiple asset types and geographies 
can make it challenging for stakeholders when understanding the materiality of a Performance Measure, or which 
region or asset class might be under/outperforming against other regions or assets groups in the portfolio.
Rationale 
Comparison between geographies and property types can help explain trends in environmental and social 
performance. 
• Geographical segmentation can be a helpful way to analyse resource consumption, although reporters should 
be mindful when making comparisons between absolute and intensity performance across geographical 
borders (e.g., explaining weather factors which affect consumption in the accompanying narrative). 
• Property types provide another useful way to analyse consumption as property types have different 
consumption patterns and drivers for resource use. 
The GRI also encourages comparison by location (geographical position of a building according to climatic 
zone) and building types (function or form of a building). These can include high level categorisations such as 
commercial	and	residential,	as	well	as	more	detailed	categorisations	of	these,	such	as	commercial	office,	retail	
warehouse and shopping centre. Please refer to GRI 302-3: Energy intensity for an example of the segmental 
analysis approach applied to energy reporting. 
This is also supported by the ESRS which requires the “disaggregation” of data by country and/or different 
significant	asset	type. 80
Note that there are further segmentations that may be meaningful for certain reporters in addition to geography 
and property type.
 
 
 
 
CORE: It is important that meaningful segmental reporting and analysis is adopted in line with the approach 
selected	by	companies	in	their	financial	reporting.
•	 Companies	should	use	the	property	typologies	adopted	in	their	financial	reporting.	Where	additional	typologies	
are used, an explanation for this should be provided.
• Mixed use developments represent a special case where it should be clear whether mixed use properties 
are	listed	as	one	asset	or	broken	down	by	types	of	use	(e.g.,	office	and	retail	unit	element).	In	all	cases,	the	
approach	towards	mixed	use	developments	should	be	in	line	with	companies’	financial	reporting.
• Segmental reporting and analysis can be applied to both absolute and intensity asset-level Performance 
Measures.
RECOMMENDATIONS
80 Further guidance on the “disaggregation” of data can be found in ESRS 1, section 3.7 Level of disaggregation.

--- PDF SEITE 64 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
7.8	 Disclosure	on	own	offices
Issue 
In addition to disclosing their investment portfolio and corporate-level performance, the environmental impact of 
a company’s own occupation should also be disclosed within a company’s sustainability report.
Rationale 
Companies	are	responsible	for	the	environmental	impact	of	their	own	occupation,	in	leased	or	owned	offices.	While	
this impact may seem minimal compared to the environmental impact of their investment portfolio, it is important 
to demonstrate that sustainability principles are also practised at the corporate level.
 
 
 
 
CORE: When	reporting	environmental	Performance	Measures	for	a	companies’	own	office(s):
•	 Own	office(s)	impacts	should	be	disclosed	and	reported	separately	from	those	of	investment	portfolios.
• The reporter must clearly state any methods of estimation used.
• The proportion of disclosed data that is estimated must be clearly stated.
RECOMMENDATIONS
7.9	 Narrative	on	performance
Issue 
Similarly	to	financial	performance,	the	environmental,	social	and	governance	performance	and	position	of	real	
estate companies often requires additional narrative information.
Rationale 
Explaining the context of the company’s operations and management decisions can enhance stakeholders’ 
assessment	and	analysis	of	non-financial	performance	in	the	same	way	as	it	can	help	evaluate	financial	
performance.
 
 
 
 
CORE:
• Adjustments should not be made to asset-level and corporate-level Performance Measures. Companies should 
provide, where appropriate, additional information and commentary or explanation of past performance, and 
outline plans for managing future performance.
 • When looking at the environmental performance of a portfolio, it may be useful to understand what factors, 
other than building management and tenant behaviour, might explain consumption trends. The most frequently 
used	factors	that	influence	environmental	performance	include	weather,	levels	of	building	occupancy,	‘special	
uses’ (e.g., higher consumption in buildings where tenants undertake trading activities) and age of buildings.
 • When Performance Measures, like Cert-Tot, H&S-Emp, or H&S-Asset data is reported as “0”, narrative must be 
provided to explain why the company does not participate.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
64
RECOMMENDATIONS

--- PDF SEITE 65 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
7.11 Reporting period
Rationale 
Companies that have been reporting on their sustainability performance for a long time may have access to many 
years’ worth of historical data. While like-for-like Performance Measures must be reported for the two most recent 
years, companies can choose to report their performance against absolute and intensity Performance Measures 
over	a	much	longer	period.	At	the	same	time,	companies	must	balance	the	benefits	of	disclosing	longer	term	
trends with the need to provide meaningful data.
 
 
 
 
CORE:
• Historical data for absolute and intensity Performance Measures can be disclosed at the discretion of the 
reporting company. If the reporter has, for example, multiple years of historical data, they may wish to report 
the	oldest	year	(especially	if	it	is	a	baseline	year),	significant	milestone	years	as	well	as	the	most	recent	three	
years. For example, a company with 23 years of data may report years 2000, 2010, 2021, 2022 and 2023.
7.10	 Location	of	EPRA	Sustainability	Performance	Measures	in	companies’	reports
Rationale 
It is EPRA’s view that companies should include yearly sustainability and corporate responsibility content in their 
annual report and accounts, supporting the transition towards integrated reporting. This is also supported by the 
ESRS which mandates the publication of the sustainability statement in the management report.
However, it is not necessary for companies to report in detail on EPRA Sustainability Performance Measures in 
their annual sustainability and corporate responsibility report, or that complete EPRA sBPR performance tables 
are disclosed in their annual report and accounts. 
A template table is provided for illustrative purposes as a supplementary document on the EPRA website called 
Sample Data Table of EPRA sBPR Sustainability Performance Measures .
 
 
 
 
CORE:
• Companies must, as a minimum, include a cross-reference (e.g., a reference or hyperlink) to the location of the 
most comprehensive EPRA sBPR performance tables that use the Performance Measure codes (e.g., Elec-
LfL) if these have been published elsewhere (e.g., on the company’s website). Companies should report all 
Performance Measures in the table format (including corporate-level Performance Measures) although, for 
governance Performance Measures, these tables can include a reference to where the information can be found 
using the relevant Performance Measure codes.
RECOMMENDATIONS
RECOMMENDATIONS
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
65

--- PDF SEITE 66 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
7.12 Materiality
Issue 
Materiality is a crucial element in guiding a strategic approach to sustainability for companies and creating relevant 
disclosures for stakeholders. By conducting a complete and robust materiality assessment, companies can identify 
key material issues across their value chain, thus demonstrating an understanding of where the company may have 
material	impacts	on	society	and	the	environment,	may	experience	material	financial	effects,	or	both.
There is an increasing expectation on companies to conduct a materiality review as a prerequisite for reporting 
against both voluntary and mandatory sustainability reporting standards.
Rationale 
When	assessed	concurrently,	the	dimensions	of	impact	materiality	and	financial	materiality	form	the	concept	of	
‘double materiality’, now present in mandatory reporting standards set with the CSRD and guided by the ESRS. 
The	ESRS	classifies	a	sustainability	matter	that	is	material	from	an	impact	perspective	“…when	it	pertains	to	
the undertaking’s material actual or potential, positive or negative impacts on people or the environment over 
the	short-,	medium-	or	long-term.”	This	definition	includes	impacts	associated	with	operations	upstream	and	
downstream in the value chain and is not limited to contractual relationships. These impacts are irrespective of 
whether	or	not	they	are	financially	material.	
The	ESRS	have	adopted	the	same	definition	for	impact	materiality	as	the	Global	Reporting	Initiative’s	Universal	
Standards,	whereby	organisations	must	report	against	the	aspects	that	reflect	their	significant	economic,	
environmental, and social impacts, taking into account the views of internal and external stakeholders.
The	ESRS	defines	financial	materiality	as,	“the	identification	of	information	that	is	considered	material	for	primary	
users	of	general-purpose	financial	reports	in	making	decisions	relating	to	providing	resources	to	the	entity.”	It	should	
be	noted	that	the	Sustainable	Development	Goals	Disclosure	(SDGD)	also	references	a	broader	form	of	financial	
materiality in “…the ability of the organisation to create long term value for the organisation and society”.81 In 
other reporting guidance such as the IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards (also known as the ISSB standards), 
material	impacts	are	disclosed	on	the	basis	of	potential	financial	effects,	primarily	for	investor	stakeholders.	There	
is	alignment	of	the	scope	of	financial	materiality	in	ISSB	standards	and	the	ESRS,	although	the	ESRS	refers	to	a	
broader	group	of	stakeholders	and	explicitly	encompasses	impact	materiality	next	to	financial	materiality.
 
 
 
 
CORE:
• The EPRA Sustainability Performance Measures and associated recommendations are guided by consultation 
with industry and observation of good practice. Each Performance Measure is presented with the context to 
sustainability issues in real estate investment activities and Rationale for managing related impacts, whether 
environmental, social, or economic. As such, all Performance Measures are considered to be applicable to 
companies in scope of the sBPR, unless otherwise shown by the company in their report to be not material or 
not applicable.
•	 Although	conducting	a	materiality	review	with	any	specific	approach	(impact,	financial	or	double	materiality)	
is not mandated by the Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations, EPRA never-the-less recommends 
reporting companies give due consideration to materiality when compiling their response.
• If a reporting company chooses not to respond to a Performance Measure because they do not consider it to be 
material,	a	signifier	of	‘not	material’	must	be	provided	in	the	EPRA	Sustainability	Performance	Measures	tables	
or narrative.
• If a Performance Measure is considered not material, the reporting company may explain the conclusions of its 
materiality assessment for that requirement or topic.
• If a reporting company is mandated to provide a disclosure on material matters by other regulated reporting 
standards, the company may include a cross-reference (e.g., a reference or hyperlink) to the location of the 
relevant information.
• In the instance where a Performance Measure is considered ‘not applicable’, the reporting company must 
distinguish this separately to matters of materiality and must explain the conclusions.
RECOMMENDATIONS
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
66
81 https:/ /integratedreporting.ifrs.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/ICAS5045_SDGD_Recommendations_A4_22pp_AW3-1.pdf

--- PDF SEITE 67 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Further guidance 
There is guidance on materiality assessments available to companies from several sources, notably for impact 
materiality from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Universal Standards. However, the obligation to adopt a 
double materiality approach in response to CSRD requirements and applying European Sustainability Reporting 
Standards (ESRS) presents a challenge to all sectors. To this end, EFRAG has created implementation guidance 
for the ESRS materiality assessments. Nonetheless, companies will need to adopt an assessment methodology 
with	an	appropriate	framework	that	is	suited	to	the	specific	context	of	their	industry.	As	the	EFRAG	guidance	is	
currently presented as sector-agnostic, our supplemental document, EPRA Materiality Assessment Guidance for 
Listed Real Estate,	will	build	on	the	work	by	EFRAG	and	other	related	guidance,	to	provide	further	sector-specific	
context for listed real estate and highlight how the EPRA sBPR might be considered or used in the materiality 
process.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
67 Fourth edition April 2024

--- PDF SEITE 68 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
8
Absolute energy 
The total amount of energy consumed by an entity and those deemed to be within its organisational boundaries.
Boundaries 
The boundaries that determine the direct and indirect emissions associated with operations owned or controlled 
by the reporting company. This assessment allows a company to establish which operations and sources cause 
direct and indirect emissions, and to decide which indirect emissions that are a consequence of its operations to 
include.	See	also	the	following	definitions	on	financial	control,	operational	control,	and	equity	share.
Building energy intensity  
The	amount	of	energy	used	per	unit	of	an	appropriate	denominator	(e.g.,	floor	area,	persons).
Building GHG intensity  
The	amount	of	carbon	emitted	per	unit	of	an	appropriate	denominator	(e.g.,	floor	area,	persons).
Building types  
Categorisation	based	on	the	function	or	form	of	a	building	for	example	offices,	shopping	centres,	retail	
warehouses, industrial, multi-family housing and hotels.
Building water intensity  
The	amount	of	water	used	per	unit	of	an	appropriate	denominator	(e.g.,	floor	area,	persons).
Carbon Disclosure Project  
The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) works with shareholders and corporations to disclose the greenhouse gas 
emissions of major corporations.
Common parts  
Areas shared with other occupants in multi-let buildings, including entrance areas, corridors, lifts, staircases, 
waste storage stores, communal kitchen, or breakout facilities and any other parts within the asset and outside 
intended for the use of the occupiers of that asset.
District heating and cooling  
District heating and cooling is a system for distributing hot or cold steam and water generated in a centralised 
location for residential and commercial heating requirements such as space heating and water heating. The heat is 
often obtained from a cogeneration plant burning fossil fuels but increasingly biomass. Heat-only boiler stations, 
geothermal heating and central solar heating are also used.
Employee 
An employee refers to an individual who is in a direct employment relationship with the reporting organisation 
(excluding supervised workers and sub-contractors), according to national law or its application.
Equity-share 
Used	to	define	organisational	boundaries	for	financial	and	sustainability	(and	especially	GHG	emissions)	reporting.	
Equity	share	reflects	economic	interest,	which	is	the	extent	of	rights	a	company	has	to	the	risks	and	rewards	
flowing	from	an	operation.	Typically,	the	share	of	economic	risks	and	rewards	in	an	operation	is	aligned	with	the	
company’s percentage ownership of that operation, and equity share will normally be the same as the ownership 
percentage.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
Definitions – Glossary of Terms
68

--- PDF SEITE 69 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Floor area 
Codes	for	defining	floor	areas	vary	by	location,	building	type	and	landlord-tenant	arrangement,	for	example	
common parts area, lettable/leasable area, internal area, usable area, occupied area and conditioned/treated 
area.
Financial control  
Used	to	define	organisational	boundaries	for	financial	and	sustainability	(and	especially	GHG	emissions)	reporting.	
Financial	control	relates	to	where	the	organisation	has	the	ability	to	direct	the	financial	and	operating	policies	of	
the	operation	with	a	view	to	gaining	economic	benefits	from	its	activities.
Fugitive emissions 
Fugitive emissions are emissions of gases or vapours from pressurised equipment such as air conditioning due to 
leaks and various other unintended or irregular releases of gases.
Governance body 
Governance body refers to the committee or board responsible for the strategic guidance of the organisation, the 
effective monitoring of management and the accountability of management to the broader organisation and its 
stakeholders. For the purposes of the Sustainability Performance Measures, governance body typically refers the 
Board of Directors of the company.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  
Greenhouse gases (sometimes abbreviated to GHG) are gases in the Earth’s atmosphere that cause the 
greenhouse effect, which can greatly affect the temperature of the Earth. GHGs are the six gases listed in 
the Kyoto Protocol: carbon dioxide (CO2);	methane	(CH4);	nitrous	oxide	(N2O);	hydrofluorocarbons	(HFCs);	
perfluorocarbons	(PFCs);	and	sulphur	hexafluoride	(SF 6). Since the beginning of the Industrial revolution, the 
burning of fossil fuels has substantially increased carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions into the atmosphere, thereby 
contributing to the greenhouse gas effect.
Human rights incidents  
These are considered work-related incidents of discrimination on the grounds of gender, racial or ethnic origin, 
nationality, religion or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation, or other relevant forms of discrimination involving 
internal and/or external stakeholders across operations. 
HVAC 
Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning.
Landlord-obtained  
Landlord-obtained is when the landlord has the purchasing contract with the utility company (and the energy 
consumed that they generated themselves too).82
Like-for-like 
Consumption of a portfolio that has been consistently in operation, and not under development, during the most 
recent	two	full	reporting	years.	This	like-for-like	definition	is	aligned	with	the	EPRA	Financial	BPR	like-for-like	
definition	for	rental	growth	reporting.	For	example,	the	2024	like-for-like	change	compares	the	2024	Elec-Abs	
consumption with the 2023 Elec-Abs consumption for a consistent portfolio. This is the simplest way to take 
account of changes in the size and composition of a portfolio.
Materiality 
Material topics for a reporting organisation include those topics that have a direct or indirect impact on an 
organisation’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for itself, its 
stakeholders and society at large.
Not	applicable 
An indication that a Performance Measure is not relevant or does not apply to the reporting entity.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
69
82 EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Q&A 2020 -  
https:/ /www.epra.com/application/files/7115/8089/5590/EPRA_sBPR_QA_Feb_2020.pdf

--- PDF SEITE 70 ---
Fourth edition April 2024
Not	material 
An	indication	that	a	Performance	Measure	is	omitted	from	reporting,	due	to	its	relative	insignificance.	Significance	
is	determined	by	impact	on	society,	environment,	or	business	finances	and	considered	through	the	perspective	of	
impact	materiality,	financial	materiality,	or	the	relation	of	both	dimensions,	with	double	materiality.
Operational control  
Used	to	define	organisational	boundaries	for	financial	and	sustainability	(and	especially	GHG	emissions)	reporting.	
Operational control relates to where the organisation or one of its subsidiaries has the full authority to introduce 
and implement its operating policies at the operation.
Persons 
The average number of persons used as a denominator of a building energy intensity indicator. For example, 
measures	include:	visits	in	shopping	centres,	workstations	in	offices,	workers	in	industrial	warehouses,	residents	in	
multi-family housing or guests in hotels.
Purchase Power Agreement (PPA)  
A contract between a power producer and consumer outlining the terms for the sale and purchase of electricity 
over	a	specified	period	of	time.
Renewable energy 
Energy sources that can be replenished in a short time through ecological cycles. Renewable energy sources 
include geothermal, wind, solar, hydro and biomass.
Tenant-obtained 
Tenant-obtained is where the tenant has the purchasing contract with the utility company.83
Total	direct	GHG	emissions  
Direct GHG emissions come from sources owned or controlled by the reporting organisation. All direct emission 
sources	are	classified	as	scope	1	under	the	GHG	Protocol.
Total	indirect	GHG	emissions  
Indirect GHG emissions are those that are a consequence of the activities of the organisation, but that occur at 
sources	owned	or	controlled	by	another	organisation	or	company.	Indirect	emission	sources	are	classified	as	either	
scope 2 or scope 3 under the GHG Protocol. For the purposes of GHG-Indir-Abs, indirect GHG emissions relate to 
scope 2 emissions from landlord-obtained electricity, heat or steam consumption, and to scope 3 emissions from 
tenant-obtained fuels, electricity, heat or steam consumption.
Vacancy rates 
The proportion of lettable/leasable area that is unoccupied.
Waste	by	disposal	route 
The method by which waste is treated or disposed of, including reuse, recycling, composting, recovery, 
incineration,	landfill,	deep	well	injection	and	onsite	storage.
EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines
70
83 EPRA Sustainability Best Practices Recommendations Q&A 2020 -  
https:/ /www.epra.com/application/files/7115/8089/5590/EPRA_sBPR_QA_Feb_2020.pdf

=== DOKUMENT ENDE ===
